Title: Improving Real-time Mobility Information for Commuters
Ê
Subject: Urban Planning

* Mobility

Abstract: 

As autonomous vehicles develop and shared models continue to grow in significance, transport planners are challenged to keep up that momentum. They face greater integration of service, information and payment methods, while citizens look for the fastest and cheapest way from A to B. How can public transit agencies seize opportunities provided by new models? How can they improve mobility experiences by fostering innovation and entrepreneurship? 

Speakers: 

Enric Ca–as Alonso
Pieter Litjens
Miguel Cabeza
Gene Myers
Miklos David Vago

Conference: 
good morning everybody we will start
this discussion about real-time imbrue
improving real-time mobility information
for commuters we got I have the the
owner i'm enrique diaz from team b the
main operator of public transport in in
the city of barcelona i will take the
opportunity to say thank you for coming
on barcelona on behalf of the city
council that is mine of mine owner i
will I hope you have a nice state's in
the city and take all the all the other
opportunities and the hospitality of the
operator from the part of mobility that
is my responsibility so I will make a
brief introduction because I think the
most interesting thing is a listen the
different session and cases that will be
presented later but as an remainder of
our of our experience I remember 20
years ago we do a survey about public
transport information and and we
realized that in that case 30 30 percent
of people don't do the the trip in
public transport for the lack of
knowledge that it can be done in public
transport 20 20 years later i we are
entered in a new and a new absolutely
area about this because we can have the
the technology and then the possibility
to give citizens real-time information
in pre trip in trip and post trip and
that's it for for us is and for the
point of view forum of an operator like
this in my case is a really really large
challenge very challenging place because
everything changed when you have a good
information we can balance we can
promote we can control mobility we can
do all things that are we are going to
present in four and four
from moderator so first taste of them it
would be from from the city of I'm just
I'm certain pitted legends I want to
thank you
your contribution Pete Peter is a Dutch
politician in People's Party from
freedom democracy Peter is at the petty
measure so from the city of Amsterdam I
will introduce very good initiative and
innovation in plan in planning in
transport and please come and speak
Thank You mr. moderator it's a pleasure
it's a pleasure to be in Barcelona it's
a pleasure to be well especially coming
from Amsterdam pleasure to be in a city
with eleven months of sunshine a year as
I was told yesterday and that's
completely different than well where we
come from
ladies animal you know I will be telling
some things about Amsterdam but what
when it comes to Amsterdam the problems
and challenges are quite similar in a
lot of European cities and all cities
all over the world Amsterdam is is a
vastly growing city this is the future
still the future but it's near future
and what we see in Amsterdam is that
every year we welcome 120 new foreign
companies a year we will be building
100,000 new apartments in Amsterdam in
the city of Amsterdam from now until
2025 which will mean 200,000 New
Amsterdam ours our city will be growing
from eight hundred and forty thousand
inhabitants to more than a million
inhabitants in only 10-15 years
and 17 million visitors tourists come to
Amsterdam each year and I know that
Barcelona is a city with a lot of
tourists but also Amsterdam is a city
with a lot of tourists and in addition
to that growth we see some other
developments we see that the average
household becomes smaller in Amsterdam
it's not only in Amsterdam it's in a lot
of cities more people hurt our high
educated in the city and between 2006
2010 and 16 the number of self-employed
people increased by 60% to 61 thousand
and what we see is that our city is
being used more intensively than it has
been used ever before in addition to
this an increasing number of people are
living outside of Amsterdam working in
Amsterdam right today we have about
280,000 cars driving into Amsterdam each
day within 15 years that will become
450,000 cars each day those numbers are
massive you know one of our biggest
challenges the main challenge is how to
keep Amsterdam attractive accessible and
livable and like many other old cities
while old cities Amsterdam isn't dead
old Amsterdam has a medieval core you
see if their Amsterdam is famous world
famous for its canals and unlike Paris
or London or some other major cities
answer them did not implement in the
last decades large-scale urban renewal
in the nineteenth century only a modest
ring a car ring with relatively
relatively narrow streets was added to
the city and that means that the
challenges we face is not how to make
more infrastructure but how to use the
public well the square meters of public
space we have we cannot add extra
infrastructure so we have to find other
solutions and what we see is that
Amsterdam is a city that is famous for
its bikes
car lanes are increasingly congested but
also bicycle lanes get more and more
crowded every day and furthermore the
city's is growing within its boundaries
we do not build new houses in green
areas or in blue areas we build it in
the current city boundaries and
therefore public space becomes
increasingly scarce in a recent years
the city has taken some measures
measures to reduce the number of cars in
Amsterdam in certain spots in the
Center we have taken measures to make
the city even safer safer for cyclists
for pedestrians we invested in a new
metro line which took us much much
longer than we expected we started with
a budget from 1.3 billion euros and
right now we're on 3.1 billion euros but
it will be open next year at the 22nd of
July at five o'clock in the morning but
despite those measures in the long run
another approach a more fundamental
change in our approach to mobility is
needed and I think that goes for a lot
of other cities and I think the approach
will be mobility as a service we believe
that mobility as a service is that new
approach and it makes three
fundamentally different shifts in the
approach to mobility mobility as a
service first the shift from ownership
to usage in the mobility as a service
approach few people need to own their
own cars for even or even bicycles and
especially in cities a new generation of
drivers the new generation it's not very
keen on owning their own cars second
there has to be a shift from supply to
demand driven right now we offer public
transport we offer public transport and
it's not a demand driven is it's supply
driven so what we do is offer bus lines
even when there are no well not a lot of
passengers and we will dramatically have
to make a change to a supply driven a
mode of transport personal preferences
of people real-time information on
traffic situation budget choices will
all be haven't taken to into account
when it comes to mobility as a service
citizens well only am i shutting it down
right now
yeah citizen citizen will only accept
that new approach when different modes
of transportation connect seamlessly and
that's one of the major challenges we
face and that's why we need a third
shift issue a third shift from a
separated domains between states and
markets to one integrated system one
integrated mobility system in which
public and private organizations work
together closely together to facilitate
the citizens and traditionally I already
said it a government fund public
transport companies for those who don't
have a car and we fund infrastructure
for those who have a car bicycle lanes
are for people to commute within a
limited distance and what we need and
what we need is that policy makes new
choices new choices where we where we
don't have differences between the
different modes of transport and the
mobility as a service approach all
domains should be made available to
everybody and investment decisions as
well from the government public or
private will benefit the mobility system
as a whole the fourth shift is this now
digital technology mobile Internet's
data are mostly cool or or extra to the
existing infrastructure and to my
opinion in the future mobility as a
system service mobility as a service the
real-time data are the foundation of the
mobility architecture with mobility as a
service we hope you achieve improved
quality of life when it comes to the
usage of square meters of public space
but also when it comes to pollution
livability of our cities breathing less
congestion less pollution monitor and
analyze the outcomes what is to be done
how can we arrive at the mobility utopia
well first of all it is already
happening there are currently in
Amsterdam more than 4,000 sharing car
sharing cars in Amsterdam which is an
increase of 600 percent from 2008
still four thousand car sharing cars is
only two percent of the total amount of
cars secondly we're not afraid to learn
from our mistakes and that's why we
experiment and we initiate pilot
projects we are currently preparing a
pilot project in Amsterdam in the
central business district Saito's which
is our financial district this central
district is rapidly growing and it's on
the south side of Amsterdam and
currently more than 40,000 people go to
work in that area that particular area
major international national banks law
offices business consultants European
headquarters are located there and
currently 40% of those people working
there used a private car to come to work
and larger firms a desire to us have
already pledged they want to work with
the city together with the city to
promote mobility as a service to bring
that number down and in the pilot
projects people are given an incentive
to use math services instead of a car
and we already started with 50 persons
who handed in their private car key to
us and in return we gave them a budget
of thousand euros mobility budget and
they could use it in each way well every
way they like on mobility or mobility
they can use a shared car a share bike
system they could get they can rent cars
they can use public transport and right
now we are evaluating that approach and
what we are going to do is expand it to
500 users and we are planning to scale
up in a in a matter of a few years up to
10,000 people in 2020 we embrace
public-private partnerships and that's
why I am here and to I'm here to invite
cutting-edge technology firms to help us
and that's what I would like to do it's
a cry for help
we as governments are not the front
runners the front runners are you
private companies innovative companies
who invest who you know who who
innovates and what we are doing right
now is trying to cooperate to build
networks with you
and I would like to invite you to come
to the Holland pavilion to the Holland
Pavilion at 1600 hours 1700 hours
and get into contact there and help us
to find a solution for the mobility
system ability challenge we faced in
Amsterdam and a lot of international
cities face all around the world thank
you just in time delivery thank you very
much so I I will ask to Miguel to
introduce in the to the IT solutions and
please tell us I will remember to the
audience that we have an app to make the
asks for the presentations and I need
the title to 200 acts there is two ways
for the ask questions one is just in the
in the microphone zone doing or using
the app to instant send the answers to
to us thank you it's your turn
Mikkel thank you thank you thank you mr.
moderator and thanks to all the
attendance to this session my name is
Miguel cabeza I'm senior officials and
technical manager of da hua Iberia and
we're going to talk in this session
about technology peter was crying for
help from technology firms but well not
only about technology but also about the
benefits and real success cases helping
smart cities today so let's review their
requirements and the tendency the amount
the amount of vehicles in the world is
more than 1 billion this according to
the transporter forum website and the
World Bank and every year about 1.2
million people lost their lives in
crisis on road the road traffic injuries
are estimated to cost development
developing countries were 5 percent of
the GDP
or more than one trillion dollars per
year there are high hopes for IT s
solutions in America there was a program
a transportation program in development
and the plan is to save lives ten
thousand people per year the plan is to
reduce traffic accidents we're talking
about 1 million to two hundred thousand
traffic accidents per year and reduce
the loss caused by these traffic jams
and these accidents the material loss
twenty six billion dollars in Japan
there's a similar program for IDs
running until 2025 the plan is to reduce
traffic accidents by 50 percent the
average speed to be increased by 10
kilometers per hour to reduce the oil
consumption in 25 percent and there is
co2 emissions they want to read up to to
get a reduction in around 15 percent in
the case of Europe we are talking about
similar figures traffic death accident
down by 50 percent and reduce the losses
caused by the traffic traffic accidents
and congestion and environmental
pollution to five hundred fifty five
billion euros so what we have in the in
the technology landscape today is it's
not only hype it's not only hope but
these are reality some complex strategy
games like chess and go which is very
popular in throughout Asia half have now
found
that the best players are not human
beings the best players are machines and
we are talking about this is not just
come combinatoric this isn't just not
mathematics this is we're talking about
the strategies last year the best player
of go was defeated by google deepmind
machine and the tendency is to struct to
go further not only take the data not
only from this data being able to gather
information but also to extract
knowledge from this information so we
are talking about having higher rates of
recognition and having more more
information about the identity of the
vehicles or the passengers of the
situation there were nnessee
of of the road so at the front end we
can see we with this deep learning
algorithms we are able to provide
identification and detection of in the
passengers area the seatbelt the phone
we are able to identify the brand the
model of the track car vehicle the
motorbike and even the year
manufacturing the plate of course which
is something not new but we thanks to
the deep learning we are able to reach
higher rates of recognition with deep
learning algorithms and we can analyze
the face and we can provide information
about the traffic flow the queueing
situation and average speed this is a
real snapshot of a system in place in
China it's a dharwad system and you can
see we the system is not only detecting
ok it's not only providing the data in
the form of mmm image ok a cropped image
we we have information about what the
driver is wearing the plate if the color
of the car we could get the brand if
possible and even we can link the
database database is linked with
insurance databases so that we can we
can we are able to know if there is any
vehicle on road with no insurance at all
so in these last 10 years we have moved
from being a camera manufacturer we are
the first private company in the world
in terms of revenue manufacturing
cameras and recording systems and global
and comprehensive security solutions but
we have moved from this approach of
all-in-one cameras to as you can see at
the end deep learning and data is
structured information in our traffic
solution we we have electronic police
speed measurement illegal parking and
traffic guidance we are able to detect
illegal movements by cop made for
example in an intersection violation we
can detect multiple violations like
running the red light crossing a solid
line going to driving the wrong way and
changing in a legal lane sorry hydrant
so this is our solution for the
electronic police and the speed
measurement with a fixed solution and a
mobile solution and we support multi
target tracking now up to four lanes we
were able to detect to capture and
intelligent intelligent smartly
positioning the the our cameras towards
a vehicle in a in an area PAH
in an area park with no permission and
this is done automatically without human
intervention so this is our solution 200
metres around we are able to to manage
this until you we are able to smartly
control the traffic lights to control
the traffic flow in just one single box
thanks to this deep learning algorithms
traffic flow
queue lengths headway average speed and
the level of occupancy with our platform
we were able to not only see in
real-time and but to follow us on a
specific vehicle and search for those
violations as an example in in honto in
the g20 summit the contestants were
reduced 17 percent violations were we
using 50 percent and the traffic
accidents were reduced in 30 percent
some references Serbia inter policy team
Mongolia in in Ulaanbaatar in the
capital with any NPR police speed
measurement and high spot PD said
surveillance here you can see the system
searching for plate in Poland with light
enforcement speed enforcement and
integrated management in Bangkok in
Thailand with 14 to sections of iamp our
systems and police in 40 conjunctions
this is the system in Thailand not to
mention the systems in place in China so
thank you very much Justin thank you now
it's turned for for Jean Myers from
white research pleasure to be here in
Barcelona thank you very much in great
panel as well so I'm here to talk to you
a little bit about wild mesh it's it's
our emergency and disruption
notification system for public transport
and it was developed as as a as a
project for innovate UK and London
Underground in 2015 and more recently we
were entering into a pilot with Virgin
Trains East Coast to deliver the
solution oops sorry I went the wrong way
okay sorry
okay so in a UK survey we found that
only 26% of passengers are feeling that
they get the the correct information or
enough information during disruptions
and that solution or that situation is
even is even greater for staff the staff
feel that they don't have enough
information to give the passengers the
correct information and as many of you
know that are involved in rail that
passenger information district during
disruptions is paramount to being able
to make that experience better for the
passengers in the event of disruptions
and combined with this
there's arrives obviously in natural
disasters in the last 10 years and
terrorist incidents and cyber warfare
now combined to complicate that even
more you may have heard from there by
2020 that'll be between twenty and
thirty four billion devices and that
that means there would be about four
devices per person so we're coming into
a situation where the networks are the
networks are gonna be stretched the
transportation networks seem to be
stretched and there's more and more
people and then in the urban areas and
the situation with with the device
networks is such that even the 5g
specification calls for device to device
networks as a way to densify the
networks in order to accommodate this
large number of devices and so our
solution the emergency and disruption
alert network is is our solution to
solve this and it's it's based on a
real-time feed real-time streaming feed
combined with a mesh network to deliver
contextually relevant information which
is quite important that and that is
actionable in other words if if the
passenger is unable to complete their
journey due to a cancel is a cancel is
cancellation or delay they need to have
other travel options so our feed
our real-time stream notifications
actually update on offline journey
planner on our solution so I'm gonna in
case you're not really familiar with
what mesh networks are I'm gonna take
you through a little bit of that so
traditional network star networks on the
left hand side you may recognize those
for instance how a router sits at the
center or PC and those are great they
have a central authority that's really
great for security but it's also a
single point of failure and a mesh
network where devices smartphones can
connect directly to each other
certainly eliminates that problem but
then again has the the issue of
authority and authentication and a
hybrid network combines the best of both
worlds so it's it's online it's on the
mesh continuously and then when there is
internet connectivity that connects and
that's effectively what our are
streaming the wild mesh solution is with
our real-time stream now what we've done
with London Underground during the
during the trial we found that actually
we actually helped move the data through
the system so for instance as a user or
passenger enters the station he's got
cellular data and he has the most recent
information on his phone and as he
enters the London Underground or any of
the network that he may or may not have
connectivity in the in the four-quarter
in the platform Wi-Fi and as he gets
down into the system and the net the
mesh connects anyone with information
just one person on a platform can update
and then spread that information very
quickly throughout the rest of the
network our latency is effectively the
longest time it takes for a train to get
between two platforms so we ran these
tests on the London Underground
we ran five technical test between May
and April 2016 and we had two massive
learnings for that now when people talk
about mesh solutions they often tell you
that one of the one of the benefits is
self-healing well that's not only a
benefit but that's a metric that you can
measure how good a mesh network is and
we actually ran into quite a bit of
interference as you would expect on the
underground the electric
cars and in fact the carriages
themselves are faraday cages they they
keep signals out so what we found is
that on the underground we were having a
lot of drop signals so we had to make
our solution even more robust but the
interesting thing that we found is that
compared to Wi-Fi we were getting
connection speeds two to six times
faster than than Wi-Fi depending on the
contention so in really busy and really
busy stations is sometimes would take
between thirty six thirty seconds in a
minute to connect on Wi-Fi where mesh is
pretty consistently ten seconds so even
where you have connectivity mesh will
deliver that information faster and in
some situations we found that even
before the train stopped the signal was
coming through the information was
coming through on mesh so to adjust the
challenge we built a solution that has
three main components we have a mobile
sdk and four virgin as a matter of fact
we're building a staff app on top of
that - no - as I said to inform the
staff about disruption so that they can
properly relate that to relay that to
the passengers so this SDK can be
integrated into existing systems or it
can be used to build new greenfield
projects and then we have a cloud
gateway now that's effectively how we
get the data from the cloud or from the
open data services or in Virgin's case
from there on trail operating center
into the mesh so we digitally sign
everything as it gets on to the mesh so
that we know that it's from an
authenticated source and push it push it
down over a live stream and and that
cloud gateway acts as that signing
service and it also contains a content
management system for collecting
curating and distributing managing the
passengers of passenger information or
the disruption information from rail
operating control and we're looking at
putting a solution in into New York to
prototype this for Virgin
so again to reiterate the the real
advantage of our solution while there is
a lot of intelligence and some really
innovative things we're doing with the
content management system it's really
the the mesh is our USP and it provides
sustainable data distribution in the
event of internet outages power failures
terrorist incidents natural disasters
and cyber warfare and in conclusion we
know that you know emergency scenarios
are on the rise by about 40 50 percent
over the last decade there's going to be
anywhere from twenty to thirty four
billion devices by 2020 depending on who
you get that information from and that
device to device and mesh networking is
important not only for emergency
scenarios but again also for also for
densifying the network's the even the 5g
networks are going to strain to cope
under this load so you can go to our
site we actually next week we'll have
the case of the full case study from
London Underground available so please
go to you can go download it now and
we'll we'll send it to you when it's
when it is available happy to you know
answer any questions if you want to
email us and ask us more about that and
then of course if you sign up then as
soon as we finish the Virgin project
that that available that case study will
be available as well and really that
that's all we have I finished early so
we same time thank you very much thank
you thank you for you very amazing blast
from digital community I'm a smart
solution please Miklos introduce us in
deep about mobility as a service
provider so that you're hello everyone
I'm so happy to be here and it's really
easy to continue this this line of
presentations because all my colleagues
before me they all introduce you into
this ecosystem and actually mobility as
a service being referred
earlier so what I would like to do is
just keep continue going to be details
and probably trigger some questions from
your side and from other sides as well
so let's jump in so what we are going to
talk about is again showing you what
mobility as a service is then facing
with the challenge which we have at
least in Budapest
then just get to know about the
ecosystem of mobility as a service see
and least the prerequisites of such a
thing then get to know the stakeholders
and see what are the action points maybe
you have some more okay so why we have
Netflix here Spotify you have Spotify
yeah yeah you're listening music on
Spotify probably you're watching on HBO
go movies right Game of Thrones stuff
like that have you ever bought in the
last two years Pro DVD or CD from your
favorite band probably because you would
like to keep it on your shelf but
usually you are doing it on the go and
you are using these services from the
cloud you are not owning things anymore
you are streaming it so let's just
interpret this into mobility do you
really need your car don't you afraid
that it's gonna be scratched somebody's
gonna steal it or even you just don't
want to invest such a huge money into
owning something which is gonna be
outdated soon maybe if it's a Tesla and
yeah but then let's go I would say that
mobility is a service is the same
business model which we all know from
the streaming services because mobility
as a service is user centric so it's
focusing on you as a traveler and then
we will see that all the other
stakeholders are also interested in this
because the intelligent mobility
distribution mobile model it's it's a
girl
integrating all the service modes which
are available so how I got here
actually I look out from my window and
then I realized that there's gonna be a
huge traffic jam so I open Google Maps
and then I figured that okay so probably
the best way to come here taking the
subway or buy a cab and I could make
this decision because this city somehow
achieved that the cab and the public
transportation is all included into
Google Maps it's not the case in
Budapest we hope is gonna reach this
status so and I think one really
important point that at least in
Budapest many and most of the taxpayers
money is being invested into new subway
lines you know how much money is is it's
a lot and then it's just one mode of
transportation so what I say that we
already have capacities which should be
better used and this business model
makes it happen
so what's the challenge maximizing the
utility of the existing capacities and
changing the mind to a holistic view so
we are taking into into a can all modes
of transportation and the very basic is
to the fundament of this distributing
real-time information to the to the
passengers so see let's see that
what's the ecosystem on the top you can
see mobility as a service and it's let's
say existence on your phone like the
Spotify application so you are having
this you can do all the functionalities
through this application then there are
the providers you all know bike-sharing
here you have bike sharing as well if
you local you have peer-to-peer
car-sharing you have ride-sharing right
hailing all this stuff of course you
have the public transportation companies
but these are all providers which are
providing the service through one
mobility operator to you as the
passenger
or as the person who would like to go
from A to B and since we've been asked
or we been let's say as that
where are the technology enablers here
we are so like you just mentioned you
have many stuff which can be implemented
as Deutsche Telekom also have focusing
on this we also have all the all this
let's say knowledge and also the the
delivery capacity to do this because
urban development is one of the
fundament than the truth traffic
developments building roads the public
transportation railways and all the
infrastructure and of course it the
connectivity which can help you using
your smartphone anywhere yeah so the
smartphone's all of you almost have I
guess the seamless payment because it's
okay that I can choose which I would
like to use but then I would like to pay
as fast ads and and as seamless as
possible and let's see the stakeholders
the technology neighbors we are already
here and let's focus on the IT
integrators which have the knowledge and
they are ready to serve this ecosystem
one really good example I think the the
women it's from Helsinki it's already an
existing application which aggregates
all these modes of transportation so
being being in Helsinki you can decide
whether I would like to go by cab use
the public transportation by bike or the
combination of this that's really
important
the mobility service providers they are
competing to each other so you're gonna
get better service hopefully and as the
local authorities and political actors
they have let's say the responsibility
to trigger this and do not block the
innovation the customers this is I think
the easiest thing what we can imagine so
yeah I'm someone who is coming from the
suburbs would like to go into the city
and I would like to make the best
decision I'm so tired
paying so much money for something which
is not convenient it just I rather go
wait car so that's the way which is
about to change and I think this is what
happened in Amsterdam with these 50
people and I really hope that in a few
years there won't be company cars
because company owned cars will be
neglected and probably this kind of
fleet it's gonna be served all these all
the employees and the city will be able
to breath again yeah so again using a
really simple payment method and let's
see that who are these so the relation I
think put a political and so the policy
has to enable all the others to be able
to act otherwise it's gonna be blocked
from the very first point the business
so there has to be business in this
model otherwise no one is gonna invest
in this new model of transportation the
technology I would say it's already here
you just have to choose the best
provider and hopefully Deutsche Telekom
will stand in the game so customers yeah
here we are I'm happy and you are happy
to pay for the last money for the best
service available let's see what's the
action points because the city
government should buy in what does it
mean they have to make some steps
towards to make this happen and they
have to enable the actors to make this
happen and let private companies into
the game and this is where we are
public-private partnership there are
good models how they could implement it
in countries in Budapest we see good and
bad examples but these private companies
are eager to make money so they will
offer the best service for the city and
for the customers so I believe that
there is a good match and so the
technology architecture it should be
something where I can easily connect so
it shouldn't be something close okay if
I have a good service I believe I can
take you from A to B but I don't have
access to to supply my services that's
bad you have to open the market for all
the providers and as the and then the
city won't invest so much money on into
something which is already in the market
and yeah since we are supposed to talk
about the commuters or someone who is
living in the suburb so yeah take into
consideration not just the city travel
and so not just we're in the capitals
and the big cities but also all the
people who are coming to Amsterdam
100,000 people buy cars they should
leave their car at home because these
applications these platforms should be
open for them as well and let's see
where we are in Budapest Budapest as I
said we already implemented many of the
solutions which are supporting mobility
as a service we are at the stage where
we are providing real-time mobility
information passenger information but
there are no private companies and we as
Deutsche Telekom providing all these
solutions to the city I think we have
the role to educate the city and also
because you are paying for your mobile
in bills probably the service can be
included also into your mobile payment
thank you very much I use sometimes it's
been saved thank you
i summarized more or less could you
bring us the questions that now it's
time to send us a questions and that's
see see see okay okay thank you
that's a common question if you it's
real time essential for intelligent
transport systems how you are protecting
this data they take their data that's
question yeah can you hear me okay so so
yeah that's our job so if I'm an IT
integrator then I have the knowledge
inside the company or I have the best
partners so don't worry about that
because these technologies been already
used in the private sector of course
it's a big issue which which is good to
take into consideration and I'm telling
you we had something in the past in the
last few months in Budapest so what you
have to know that the taxpayers are your
biggest Porter's and even if you are a
company which is serving the citizens if
you do something wrong then they will
punish you so bad so that's our interest
to to keep all the data safe okay
another question is how are you looking
now for those people that don't have a
smartphone and need to to have the
mobility to
well I think I think I think city
government will have to take care for
mobility for all of its citizens
people who have a car can provide in
their own mobility what we have to do is
is is not exclude people from a mobility
system so when you are defining or
working on mass systems you will have to
find a way to include all so that while
they have nuts people who don't have
their own modes of transport don't want
to use a smart phone there are also
people who don't want to use a smart
phone there are people who don't have a
smart phone and I'm sure that there will
be enough possibilities for those people
to to be mobile and and and it's not the
end it's not the end of public transport
it's not the end of private owned bikes
in Amsterdam so there will still be in
elementary but more than enough
possibilities for those people that's
the I agree with this this all always
another way to do that thing then is not
opposite of other ways without we do
okay that's great yeah another question
and good you for displaying how
real-time data directly improved
mobility for citizens or are they
additional as Thresh's strategies needed
so this is more for you for thing
okay so other strategies yeah but I
believe in the in the power of the
people so you can really make the
difference so you if you choose either
instead of the traditional cabs then you
push the market towards this ecosystem
which just happened in Budapest
uber was there they were operating for
one year then they've been kicked out
from the country because yeah they
didn't pay taxes oh it's a living debate
we can talk about this but what what it
made in the city that now all the cab
service providers they have their
application before that they had these
really bad call centers and you never
had an answer on that now all day all
these taxi companies are providing
application and the payment is seamless
you won't be cheated which is so
annoying when you arrive to an airport
and then you pay double or triple the
price so I think ask yourself what you
can do for this because based on your
decision this whole ecosystem is going
to be pushed to a more competitive way
okay so just let me add some point
regarding an aspect of mobility which is
security I think we we have talked about
more we've been focusing more on and
economics it's a robot for example in
this lovely peaceful cities some some
months ago we had a terrible event a
terrorist attack so it's not only
detecting a car is thinking ly going the
wrong way it's more than that so in the
real time adds some more values it's not
only just ok the mobility per se but
some aspects going down into the details
of mobility
okay like security we are all out of
time but I want to thank you all the
panelists for for the presentations and
the answers for their questions and and
thank you for all the audience to to be
here and do we have to close that
session thank you very much everybody so
[Applause]


