Title: Building Better Communities from the Bottom-Up
Ê
Subject: Disruptive Models

* Mobility

Abstract: 

How can we drive change in our communities and move past unproductive committees, low community engagement, and outdated regulation? In this funny, smart, energetic, and breathless talk, arts activist Jason Roberts of the Better Block Project encourages us to stop waiting around. Even if that means painting in our own crosswalks, bringing in our own trees, building our own cafes, and blackmailing ourselves into action.

Speakers: 

Jason Roberts

Conference: 

okay we're going to move on to our first
inspirational talk this comes from Jason
Roberts and it's called building better
communities from the bottom up Jason is
the founder of the better block project
his work and helping create
neighborhoods has become an
international movement which received a
Champions of Change award from the US
White House in this talk he's going to
look at how we can drive change in our
communities from a grassroot level
taking a very DIY approach to
stimulating action we'll also be taking
questions on the app so please make sure
you submit them throughout his talk
please give a very warm round of
applause to Jason Roberts all right so
this cue this up here so my name's Jason
Roberts I'm from Dallas Texas just thank
you again from Dallas Fox out here oh
good I head up an organization called
the better block we are working in
communities around the world to help
rapidly transform spaces for bringing
places back to life again and things
like that but the thing is my early
inspiration was kind of looking at
places that weren't working anymore
this is like my mom's town where she
grew up this is in Fletcher Oklahoma
which is the middle of the u.s. like 800
people and if you go to the US many of
our small towns in the rural areas look
just like this their main streets that
are closed up they're wide streets but
they built highways and when they built
those highways they built these big
department stores and life kind of died
in these old Main Street areas but my
mom would tell me stories about how they
used to have parades in these spaces how
they used to have they would celebrate
life together this is where everyone
came together like the local store
owners knew everybody they knew the shop
they knew the kids in the area kids
couldn't do anything wrong because they
were always being watched and so a lot
of my early work was trying to figure
out how do you bring the life back to
these places how do you make these
places come back on again but the
problem was since I wasn't an urban
planner or architect I was your
Peter guy so this is where I spent most
of my days kind of changing out wires
and cables and servers in fact that
would have been setting up all this
projection unit and all and at nighttime
I played in rock bands so I was really
not the guy you would ever call in order
to help kind of fix your city but some
other inspiration for me was also
getting a chance to travel in seeing
great places that were very old that had
been working for a long time so I
remember going to Paris first and seeing
this space and thinking like man this is
gorgeous it's a hundreds hundreds of
years old I wish this was my
neighborhood if it was there I would go
there every single day for a cup of
coffee I'd want to like like retire in
this area I'd ask friends about the
space and say what do you think about
places like this and they said man
we wish we had this in our neighborhood
as well we put this on postcards we want
our kids to work here one day and I
thought well if we all collectively wish
we had more places that look like this
then why do we keep building places that
look like this and that was the early
idea behind our work was this we know
that places that we create create
responses from us they make us feel good
they make us feel bad they make us feel
like we want to celebrate as a community
or they can make us feel like
commodities we're just coming here to
just do a transaction only and leave so
I decided to start going to the city and
thinking like well how can I make change
how can I help I went to the City of
Hall in Dallas and said I want to get
involved and they said well first of all
in Dallas it's hot so you know three
months out of the year it's a it's a 40
degrees Celsius and then we also have a
car culture so you're never gonna get
people out of their cars but if you want
to get involved we have these planning
initiatives we have all these plans you
can be a get involved with the forward
Dallas Plan we have the downtown Dallas
360 plans we've got bike plans from the
1980s and the recent ones that have
never gotten built maybe you can pull
those off and work on those or you can
work on the 2035 mobility plan so I
thought I saw this and thought well
Dallas is gonna be great in 2035 I hope
I can make it
so I started started thinking a lot
can't get involved with the city because
it's gonna take too long why don't work
I work on projects that were in my own
neighborhood I can take on the problem
though with my neighborhood was it was
considered historically as the bad part
of town it has had a stigma for nearly a
century and a lot of that stigma came
from the fact that we had some bad folks
that came from our neighborhood so first
of all
today was called Oak Cliff the we had
Bonnie and Clyde are from my
neighborhood but also Lee Harvey Oswald
in fact this theater was kind of ground
zero for why we were perceived as the
bad part of town this is called the
Texas theater and at the time when I
wanted to start getting involved this
theater had been closed down for four
decade in fact the only reason that had
a sign was because Oliver Stone made
that sign for the movie JFK so I saw
that theater I started meeting the board
that was working on the space and they
said we need millions of dollars to fix
it up but we don't have philanthropy
coming into the area and so I thought
well I don't have a million dollars
either so what can I do maybe I can get
involved with my friends I get my arts
community together so we got together
said why don't we have a hundred people
in our neighborhood come out to the
theater and we'll give them all canvases
have them paint together one night and
the next night will open up the theater
and turn it to this instant art gallery
will open the doors again so this is us
inside the space getting there getting
this place ready and in minutes before
about to open the doors were thinking
man this could be an abject failure cuz
first of all the theater had been closed
for a decade it was the middle of winter
and we're on the bad side of town but
when we open the doors we had 700 people
show up and we sold every piece of art
we had created the night before but
beyond that people came up to me
afterwards and say we've been waiting
for someone to open the doors to the
theater I thought well I was waiting for
someone opened the doors of the theater
as well like we're all just waiting for
someone to kind of stand up and kind of
let turn the lights on and allow us to
use these spaces again now if you go to
the area it's working well this is an
anchor for our community it's it's runs
a regular film festivals and it's
working in fact within three months as I
kept getting involved I said I want to
keep helping and I became the president
of the Texas theater so I tell people to
be careful whenever you say you want to
help because they will throw the keys at
you but it's done a lot for our
neighborhood it's been this complete
rallying point for our for our community
so drunk with enthusiasm and thinking if
I can help bring back a theater in my
neighborhood with or with our community
what else can we work on I started
looking at old maps in our neighborhood
this map is from 1929 and if you look at
the top right downtown Dallas is at the
top right and this is Oak Cliff here and
I started looking at these areas and
started thinking about how did we used
to be how this area is to work I really
just have a tram line
streetcar that ran throughout our
community and so I looked at that I
thought okay that stream was very
integral to how we actually developed so
one of the big things was the Texas
theater had 650 seats but it only had 35
parking spaces so the tram was how
people were coming into the area when we
took that away it actually created a lot
of problems
so I started attending a lot of
neighborhood meetings and we talked
about ideas on ways we can bring energy
and things back to our community and
people had a lot of different ideas and
I said I've got an idea why don't we
bring back that tram bring back the
trolley car system people said that's
crazy it's been gone for half a century
you can't bring back a tram and I knew
very little about trolleys but since I
was an IT guy and I make a website so I
went home that night and made a fake
website called the Oak Cliff Transit
Authority that looked really official
had boards and newses and histories and
I had your European trans on the front
as well and the next week our dour
newspaper came out to the story saying
dreaming the day the streetcars return
that's what Jason Roberts and other
members of the recently formed Oak Cliff
Transit Authority are hoping but there
were no other members it was just me but
I had people in my neighborhood call me
I said we got a Transit Authority this
is great well no but I'd like to see if
we can get this involved how do we get
this up and running again so it turns
out I had a guy in my neighborhood it
was a civil engineer who said I will
donate time a hundred hours pro bono to
doing a feasibility stuff a study I had
another guy in my neighborhood it was 80
years old but enough parts of this
garage to build a trolley car so we had
this interesting army of folks together
we could gather so while this is going
on we started thinking okay
this is gonna take us a long time to
bring back the trolley car what else can
we work on and after looking around the
world and seeing all these new
developments happen we saw a lot of
great things happening around bike
infrastructure and so we thought well
why don't we start getting some bike
infrastructure in our neighborhood but
the problem was when we talked about
bicycling in the US it wasn't like I saw
here in Europe where you have girls and
dresses and guys in suits riding their
old heavy bicycles when we bicycles in
Dallas and the way we promoted by
something was we'd all get in spandex
we'd start doping and we go 300 miles
like that's how we bicycle so I thought
well how do we create a group well get
together and we'll call it bike for Leo
cliff will kind of put rally around this
idea take out your old heavy swing from
the garage and we'll all go out together
to like the post office into like the
grocery store together I found out you
know as a lead
this organization when I started going
to City Hall and saying heck with this a
great idea I want to take all of our
roads I'm going to cut them in half and
put bike lanes everywhere you'll have a
lot of people that look like this that
come out and say no no you won't so I
realized okay it's gonna be really
tricky for me to get this guy to ride a
bicycle so we'll have to figure out some
other approach that we get people into
this idea so we said well why don't we
just start getting people to ride
together for fun why don't we do just
this history tours we'll go out and
we'll we'll celebrate you know following
the trail Lee Harvey Oswald cuz we
didn't have a lot to celebrate in her
neighborhood and so we got it this this
idea up we said we're gonna promote this
this ride we said meet us at the grassy
knoll because that's where you're gonna
meet for a JFK ride and we thought maybe
if we're lucky they'll be twenty people
show up because I mean who's into this
idea of writing old heavy bikes in hot
Dallas but whenever I showed up to the
grass you know and saw what was there I
saw 150 people actually they were all
excited about this idea and so this
picture is taken actually that's
crossing the bridge and going into my
neighborhood so what you don't see as me
at the front of this line looking
terrified because first of all I didn't
own a bicycle when we started bike
family Oak Cliff I just loved the idea
of having a bike culture but I also
thought I am NOT the leader of a
movement I don't need to be leading
anything I'm your IT guy but I thought
if you're passionate about something you
have everything it takes to become a
leader and everyone in our community was
way for someone to stand up and say
there's a problem there are other ways
to do things there's other things
happening around the world why don't we
try something different
and so I started trying to figure out
what are other ways we can help build
bike culture in our neighborhood or it's
easy simple way so one of the first
things I found was my kids school know
kids are riding bicycles at all none
whatsoever in fact there were no bike
racks and when I was a kid everybody
rode bikes to school so I thought well
why don't we go out and I'll get punch
cards to the kids and I said every day
if you write every day for five days for
a week I will punch the card and at the
end of a week we'll all go out get root
beer floats together the beginning of
the week we had maybe zero we had four
or five kids riding by the fifth day we
had 100 kids come out and start riding
so we realized that we could easily kind
of transform these spaces and build
these bike cultures and build cultures
based on these simple ways getting
people together and having them have fun
together all right so I was looking at
trolley cars I was working on the street
the theater and also working on bike
projects I started looking at the blocks
of buildings in my neighborhoods and
trying to
why aren't these working I realize we
did a lot to hurt these spaces over time
so first of all and in the 1970s we
changed the roads to one-way high-speed
streets we thin the sidewalks we got rid
of the landscaping and we change the
zoning from from retail to light
industrial and then we created all these
laws and rules and don't don't read all
this but just know that we had rules
that said if you want flowers on the
sidewalk there's gonna be a thousand
dollars in permitting if you wanted to
have awnings over the windows $1,000 per
awning Street cafe's is gonna be a
thousand dollars times market rate area
value times eighty-five percent times
twelve percent I have no idea what that
is and then we also had laws that if you
really want to queue in your street life
that say say people are now allowed to
gather on the sidewalk and all of those
rules were from 1941 so when I asked the
city and city staff why do we have these
rules are like we don't know they just
been on the books for a long time you
have to follow these rules we looked at
our blocks in our neighborhood we said
well obviously it's illegal for us to do
anything to make these places come back
to life so what would happen if we took
a weekend and we broke every law we
possibly could so that's what we did we
just went in and we painted our own bike
lanes we thinned the streets ourself we
added our own cafe seating we brought
our own historic lights out
we took the empty buildings we put the
businesses we always wanted to have in
our neighborhood we put bookstores and
coffee shops and flower shops and then
we printed off every one of those laws
and rules were breaking we put in the
windows and we said everybody come out
to our better block we invited our city
staff and our mayor and they came out
and they're like I don't know if we're
supposed to be here we're thinking mean
we're all gonna go to jail but the
amazing thing was people saw this and
said this is works much better we'd much
rather have places like this this makes
far more sense in our community and we
started seeing a lot of rules change
after this we started using the zoning
rules change so now we get we were no
longer a light industrial back to retail
and our in are these little pockets and
we also saw all those fees get reduced
so instead of being a thousand dollars
for cafes eating now it's 100 dollars so
it's a lot easier
I feel so that's great but you didn't
want to spring it's nice outside but
remember in Dallas it gets really hot so
I said okay let's try to get in the
middle of summer we'll take another
street in our area and we'll say it has
a similar problems I mean there's no
sidewalks on one side broken up
sidewalks on the other side there's a
pole if nothing on it
just grayness and kind of empty
buildings and thought how do we make
this cool
cool this down and make this a humane
space for people so we came out with our
neighbors in the middle of night we
brought out 42 trees but 100 bushes to
create pedestrian islands so cars would
go slower in the area and people would
feel safe crossing the streets we
painted her own crosswalks we put
bicycles on that pole because we weren't
really the bike part of town we just
kept telling people were we weren't it's
funny how it became the self-fulfilling
prophecy
and then lastly we put tables under the
trees and people came out and they would
not leave so we found that there was
this easy way for people to experience
something and have a feeling and say
this makes sense we need more places
like this these people all became into
my neighborhood became instant Urbanists
they got it all immediately and the
thing is I show this picture off and
this is the block looked like at the end
we had seen so many architects and
consultants coming to our neighborhood
giving us renderings and models and
watercolors that never got built so we
said you know we don't believe these
anymore we had rendering fatigue so the
amazing thing is we just took the time
energy it takes to draw pictures and we
just built it ourself
those aren't photoshopped trees those
are real trees those aren't photoshopped
bicycles are real bicycles from our
neighborhood real crosswalks that we
made so one of the big initiatives that
we found that was important for our
community which was kind of us kind of
before I forget people also asked me
what happens we break all those laws and
rules this is my friend Scott who helped
me identify the laws and rules were
breaking Scott's now our city council
member so I found there's a one-to-one
correlation between breaking laws and
becoming a public servant all right we
also found that was important for us to
work fast
the community has ideas they want to do
things but they start going through the
bureaucracy and then they realize it's
going to take us years and millions of
dollars so we're just going to give up
we had a group that wanted to do a dog
park and they talked to the city and
they said it's going to take us you know
do these environmental studies and wait
three years and we need lots of acreage
acreage of land and we didn't have that
the group came to me and they said well
well well what would you guys do and
we're standing across this field in our
neighborhood that was small and that was
people were throwing trash in and I said
well why don't we use this and show
people how we can turn this into a dog
park and make it like a temporary test
and they said that's great this group
they're like we'll get together well
we'll raise some money after a few
months we'll have some meetings and well
we'll try to test out a dog park and I
said well why don't we just do it next
weekend
so that's all we did we just went in and
we just copied the official city of
Dallas park signs and we made our own
park signs we found that it wasn't
actually that hard to make a dog park if
you know how to make it fence you can
make a dog park and then we started
making them more for people than less
than for dogs we found that would get
people out more so we put swings out for
kids and kiosks so you could buy dog
treats and coffee so one of the other
big concepts for us was kind of taking
the city of Dallas as mano which is
think big and kind of turning it upside
down on its head because we found
whenever we think big as a city what
that happens is that we're gonna we're
gonna go out and we're in a higher an
Italian architect who's gonna design a
150 million dollar bridge it looks like
a fish skeleton that we hope is gonna
make a hundred little things happen but
the amazing thing is the places that we
love in the world whether it's here in
Barcelona it's in London it's in New
York it's in New Orleans it's in
Johannesburg wherever it is there all
these these little blocks that we go to
all the time to have coffee shops and
flower shops and bookstores and great
sidewalks and benches and as a community
we can make 100 little things a lot
faster than that one big thing that we
hope makes a hundred little things we
found we can found a lot so these lots
of tools at the store to make this
happen so we can use white duct tape
because it looks just like the paint
that cities used to paint stripes on the
ground we can go in and we can take
trash cans from the dollar stores and we
can turn them into planners and then we
can take the scraps of graphics on the
city buses that are left over and we
make crosswalks and then we could say
look these roads are too big and too
fast we need to fix this one
intersection they'll say it's going to
take us years and all these studies and
we'll say don't worry about it we'll
take care of it on Saturday we'll fix it
ourselves and the amazing thing is now
we've gotten hired by cities assertive
as this kind of guerilla activist
movement but our cities come in look at
these and they say well this actually
works well you engage the community you
go out you try out an idea you get to
watch it you get real data and we can
apply this work afterwards people also
ask me how do you get away with breaking
all those laws and rules in broad
daylight
I thought you can break any rule you
want as long as you wear an orange vest
all right so now our work has been
sanctioned I'm gonna give an example of
a project that we have now and this is
how we do most of our work we go into a
lot of places this is an Akron Ohio that
suffers from major depopulation they
have empty buildings these wide spaces
these streets that are over built and
we're asked well how do you fix places
like this so what we have to do is we
always start with the people we he'll
find the people in the neighborhood on
the ground and we start asking who lives
here what is missing what is making this
place not working work or anymore and
what can we do to start transforming
things rapidly not in 30 years but in 30
days and so we'll make maps with the
neighborhood we'll identify all the
empty buildings the empty spaces and
this community we had Bhutanese refugees
so we said let's help let's see what
what kind of businesses they want to
start we had a lady that wanted to do a
restaurant so we started Bhutanese
restaurant we'll try to go in and and
create a cafe there's an Italian
community as well that was living there
so we'll do a cafe will create an artist
space will create an international
welcoming center because there's a
refugees moving into the neighborhood as
well and so we gather that up we start
filling up the city's official machines
with kids finger paint we go and take
white duct tape and we work with the
kids in the neighborhood and we stripe
those and then within two hours we can
have a functioning bike lane that looks
just like the ones we see on other
places around the world we can then go
in and take the empty lots these are
empty for 50 years to stick some dirt
and take some hay bales and some
volunteers and we can study kind of
classic plazas and within two hours we
can make a our own Italian Plaza in the
neighborhood we can also go in and take
the turn lanes for the cars and make
bocce ball courts we can kick the
pallets from the trash and make decks
and teach people how they can actually
build things with this with this
leftovers in the neighborhood this is an
intersection that we again we just used
finger paint and we used white duct tape
this was a bank that had been empty for
ten years and the city looked at this
and said what can we do it's it's this
is a wide street we don't know how to
make this a desirable space we just took
tires old tires the neighborhood and
paint and made a great Plaza for the
community and this is the neighborhood
actually using the space so just a few
hours before the people that were in
this bike lane were actually helping us
make this and they had no idea that they
could ever have a place like this in
their community they never believed this
was possible I thought this happens in
Portland and Austin but not in Akron
Ohio
see those things here and we can prove
this over and over again and get people
a chance to say like there is a way to
do things better and once they can show
that there's another idea there's
another way to do things they can
actually get a tow haul to make
permanent change this is a grocery store
that we worked on in Denton Texas once
it emptied there people said how do we
fix this we went in and just take old
billboard vinyl and took a scaffolding
and made it to a little Main Street so
people could show how you can actually
use this space make it small again so
people can kind of start a lot of little
businesses in the area and now you go to
our website better block org and you can
actually see a lot of the information
that we have that we do in cities all
over and you can take these ideas and
use them in your own cities so we have
recipes this is our green bike-lane
recipe you can download we have plaza
recipes we've got bocce court recipes we
also have gotten pretty heavily involved
with digital fabrication so I've gone
back into like my IT roots this is our
office in our neighborhood we started
realizing there has to be more tools we
can use to help people transform their
communities and we learned well first of
all kids know how to model things they
model things through games and through
free software online they can modeled
our cities we can teach them how to do
this and start making 3d models and with
those 3d models that can make
enhancements as well but we also realize
we can take this equipment called CNC
routers which we have it in our office
which is basically just imagine a giant
printer for wood you can cut out these
shapes and when you pick up these shapes
you actually make these interesting
things when he puzzle piece them
together this was inspired by a group
called wiki house that was designing
houses but you can actually cut out of
these with these machines with just
plywood and assemble these things with
no glue screws or nails so we created a
library called wiki block that's on our
website you can actually go to this and
download all of these designs for free
they're open source to make public space
furniture so we've got all this is just
some of the seating that you can
download simple benches that you can you
can bake simple chairs what happens is
you put the sheet of wood on the machine
you you download the file you haven't
start cutting you can go out have a cup
of coffee and come back 45 minutes later
you can actually start assembling a cafe
seating set so there's no glue screw or
nails in that this is a coffee kiosk
that we've designed that people can
assemble so they can start fixing the
public spaces and create kiosk and
create merchants in these areas that can
take I have eyes in the spaces and take
care of the benches and
in the trash this is the coffee shop
being used their tables and chairs this
is a benches with kids in st. Paul
Minnesota that we teach them how to fix
their parks this is a bus stop we design
easy to assemble for a community this is
in Tallahassee Florida we made a green
house with community garden boxes you
can download and this is uh we just did
this actually two weeks ago this is our
stadium seating you can download so you
can actually create theaters in your
area in your neighborhood and then we'll
go to kids schools and we'll teach them
how they can download the files and
modify them themselves this is an in our
in our city and in South Dallas this is
teaching the kids how they take these
files and build their own benches and
fix their own courtyards this is a
community in Ohio teaching them how they
can make cafe seating and this is then
using those spaces and in Austin we
actually there was a child that was hit
by a car because the streets were too
wide and too fast that we designed
actually a series of ball bouts and
pedestrian islands that the neighborhood
could take and download and install on
the street to Shaw you can fix it and so
the community could see these things
working again and that better block
project that I started you know back in
2010 really just I want to have a coffee
shop and a bike lane and my neighborhood
started getting really popular started
going all around the country because we
open-source the idea to look any people
starting to ask me can i how do I do
this is it look I work on computers for
a living so I can't help but here's how
you can you can do this in your own
community and then the next year start
going around the world it went all the
way from Melbourne Australia to Tehran
Iran when some people the people in
Tehran Iran called me asked about
breaking laws I was like I don't know
about breaking laws and Tehran Iran if
the stakes might be a little higher all
right I'm gonna end with a streetcar
store you see what happened with this so
this is my little team and we had a
couple other members as well on board
visiting Portland looking at their
trolley car systems and trying to figure
out how do you do this how do you bring
them back they hit brought back their
tram it took them 15 years they said
it's gonna take a long time it's gonna
be hard but it's gonna be worth it so we
gather our team together we went back to
our home and we called the city of
Dallas and said hey we want to start
applying some for some grants to see if
we can bring back our tram and they
laughed and they said okay cliff Transit
Authority apply for all the grants you
want
we found one grant called the tiger
grant the first year they ever did it
we had a point three percent chance of
getting any money whatsoever but what
happened was we won millions of dollars
and instead of taking 15 years to bring
back that tram we brought it back in
five years and all I did was build a
website so I tell people it's amazing
what you can do you could take these is
what a dedicated group of amateurs can
do in a community because we don't know
what we're not supposed to not be able
to do so we can transform places rapidly
so if you go to this neighbor you go
along now this trolley car line along
the spine of this dotted throughout this
you'll see cranes again in our
neighborhood you'll see dense
development coming back in these areas
that were empty fields before like this
we made it we started today finding out
other ways to make things happen quickly
so we started a restaurant with our
friends and neighbors as well we started
getting a lot of tension for the work I
got to a lecture at Harvard I got to
have dinner with Michelle Obama I
decided to run for a US Congress at a
free April we got in the Venice Biennale
so we thought what can stop us we found
these great ways to make lots of things
happen in our community quick but the
one thing that completely stopped me was
in 2012 I was diagnosed with stage 3
cancer and then everything stopped at
that point I were thinking what's all
this for I'm not gonna get to see my
kids grow up I'm not going to get to you
know ride this trolley car we help bring
back I'm not going to get to you know
test out these trials businesses that
we're creating and when I was at my
sickest and needed all kinds of help the
neighbors I'd gather in our community to
help do these better blocks started
knocking on my door and started taking
my daughter to go shopping they started
taking my son to go fishing and then
when I was at my sickest they started
devout doing these campaigns to help
build a better Jason to fix me so I tell
people what I got out of all of this
work with better blocks was not street
cars not businesses not anything what I
got was a neighborhood and that's why
we're doing all of the work we're doing
all the smart city stuff that you hear
all the things that are happening
whether it's involved of policy or law
or or or or economics it's all about
creating great neighborhoods so we can
feel safe so we can thrive so our kids
can do well so we can age in place so we
can have our parents feel like they're
taking care of before I forget in 2014 I
was diagnosed as being cancer-free so
I'll be just fine
thank you thank you all right like three
quick rules on how you make things
happen now so because we did a lot in a
short amount of time in our community so
first of all I said you have to show up
if you don't show up he willing as
opposed to everything so I'd again I
join every club everything the Kiwanis
Lions Clubs Chambers of Commerce --is
second of all you've got to give your
idea name so we created this great
designs and we had bike-friendly Oak
Cliff and we had Oak Cliff transit
authority so people could take these
ideas and they could actually help us
broadcast them so they took this and
said we're part of this great group in
our neighborhood and then lastly and
probably most importantly was we said we
call it blackmailing ourselves into
action we set these short dates and then
when we start publishing what we're
gonna do so what that does is it forces
us to make and make things happen in
fact we don't say don't do a long day
don't say I'm gonna do something in 12
months because you're gonna come up with
every worst-case scenario to talk
yourself out of doing something we'll
set 90-day time frames and we'll spend
the first two weeks making the poster
and making the poster as good as we
possibly can they will publish it
everywhere all announced hey we're gonna
do this better block project and people
say that's great how are you gonna pull
that off and we're like I have no idea
but the amazing thing is people will
start contacting me in my neighborhood
and say look I know how to work with
textiles and somebody else will call and
say I know how to work with wood and
somebody else will call and say I know
how to work with food and we start
assembling and fixing neighborhoods
based on the people that live in the
communities and the skills that they
have and with those three things I found
you can pretty much fix everything thank
you
[Applause]
thank you so much Jason we have got time
for a couple of questions if you'd be up
for answering them do you want to take a
seat over here just so we're not all
quickly stood at the side and that truly
was inspirational some people have
gotten contact over the app and one of
the ones they're sort of as you sort of
mentioned during your talk they're
worried about what happens when you do
actually break the law so anna says did
you ever get fine for breaking the laws
or have failed attempts of no one coming
and how did you handle that no
fortunately knock on wood I've not been
thrown in jail what we found in a lot of
the neighborhoods that we work in
they're so distressed and they're and
they're suffering so bad that often
times like the law and the police forces
were coming in saying look we're dealing
with gunfire and major like violence in
the area like if you're out here
painting a bike lane like that's low on
our priority list and when the community
started saying like hey this is working
and making places better and people are
coming together
the politicians started getting behind
it because it became a populist movement
as well so I mean I if you tried it in
affluent neighborhood maybe you're right
I know I speak and I speak all over the
world and like I know when I speak in
Germany the Germans are the most scared
of like this idea of breaking law so I
totally get that but but yeah that's
just you know and we've been sanctioned
now so we actually get asked to go in
and we'll do these projects and we'll
have the city come out and say now
should tell us every rule in law we're
breaking now so we can identify what
needs to change good wave identify and
what does need change if we've got any
questions that you just like to ask
through the old-fashioned method of
putting your hand up yes lady here no I
think there is a mic that you need to
head down to sorry you innocently put
your hand up there and I've made you
move yeah just stand there thank you
hi Jason thank you for your inspiring
talk um has the municipality change his
behavior in the sense that when you find
some roles that have to change for sure
is the government or the urban planning
who has to change at the end half day I
will say the plans that you saw like the
Ford doll
and dodge on 360 plants have been
adopted but the public areas take longer
to change the private realm changes
faster the businesses can kind of come
in and things like that
I found the public realm too in order to
get that to change you have to have a
continued pressure from an activist on
the outside otherwise and I guess but
the politicians want to make these
changes as well oftentimes but as soon
as city staff gets like somebody comes
out says they're opposed everyone gets
really nervous and so if the activists
aren't coming up and saying we're going
to continue fighting and having your
back on this then you'll see these these
initiatives fade and drop so it's it's
it's tricky it requires this constant
kind of touchpoints in pushing the ball
forward another question from the app
says great projects about how to ensure
the maintenance and security of these
places you create if you don't have the
city's buy-in a great question well
first of all and these projects are all
done temporarily so we'll just go in
like on a weekend and transform the
space and then we'll take the everything
out afterwards so the goal for our
artwork really is to identify like what
is wrong what is the capacity in the
community to actually do things and then
what are options for us to make change
so won't get into the idea of
sustainability and maintenance after we
started identifying who are the
champions and therefore liaised like we
put the trees on the street we have
people in the neighborhood come up say I
love landscaping I would love to take
care of this and we can identify a way
to maintain those things and someone
else will say I love the bike
infrastructure or a bike group and so we
start working with them to identify you
know methods for sustainability and
maintaining those things so it's it's an
ongoing process any other questions from
the floor that we can end with notice
that everything well on that night I'd
like to say thank you very much as a
brilliant talk and really really
inspiring round of applause for Jason
everyone thank you
[Applause]
