Title: Innovative Public Transit Models Reshaping Cities


Ê
Subject: Future Mobility

* Mobility

Abstract: 

Longer periods travelling to and from work have become an accepted part of many people's daily routine. Yet some studies stress that they have a devastating impact. Thus, giving commuters useful up-to-the-minute information on transport options is crucial. Sensors, real-time data and integrated platforms have come to the rescue, but there are still some challenges. How can city leaders improve this information so that commuting gets bearable?

Speakers: 

çlvaro Nicol‡s-Loscos
Dionisio Gonzalez Garc’a
Wang Jingliang
David Beeton
Alvaro Urech
Nico Anten

Conference: 

and welcome to these afternoon sessions
for them from the first day
we are in the panel that it's taking the
name of innovative public transport
models reshaping cities that means that
we will be looking at where are the
public transportation systems in our
cities thinking to have better service
to to the citizens in Barcelona for
instance I work for the municipality of
Barcelona we are completely reshaping
the the bus transport system to become a
more more efficiency a more efficient
system that is able to transport more
people with with the same buses and the
way we do that it's why reshaping
completely the lines and making them
more legible and more easy to understand
and and also we have developed a system
in which by just one interchange you can
you can access the whole the whole every
every corner of the city just with one
interchange the same that normally
happened with with a metro with a metro
system so that that would be one example
on when on what Barcelona is working on
the on that regard and we have a very
good panelists today we have people
coming from everywhere in the world we
have people when one speaker coming from
from China we have people coming from
from international organizations people
coming also from cities and from from
companies trying to offer from the
different point of view what is these
these challenges that that public
transport settings are facing in the
different cities to try to make more
efficient and more to transport more
people with with with the public
transport system which is very very
important to the sustainability of our
cities so please I will welcome that the
panelists now if they can have a seat
say what
this is a translator translator
so our first panelist in this afternoon
will be mr. Dionisio Gonzalez he comes
from the UI TP international
organization for the for the public for
the public transport and he will he's an
expert on transport infrastructures and
services and he also has work as a
director of advocacy and outreach for
the internet for the UI TP an
organization that has 1,400 members
companies working to promote and support
sustainable public transport in cities
so please welcome Ganesha
[Applause]
thank you very much
it's a real pleasure for you ATP being
here and for me personally of course
being here with you to share the results
the outcome of this you me pro yet urban
mobility innovation index let me very
briefly introduce you to you ITP you ITP
is the global worldwide Association of
public transport of sustainable urban
mobility where all the different public
transport actors are present from cities
to authorities operators industry etc
and all the different public transport
modes take part also in our association
we have 16 offices as you can see there
1,400 company members 16,000 experts or
contact persons and we are present in 96
countries through our members the
project that I am presenting here to you
today is a parade that as you can in
mine has been developed with a lot of
collaboration with different
institutions mainly by you ITP and
future cities catapult under the
sponsorship of how Transport Authority
in Dubai so it's my pressure to present
it to you on behalf of our team
you ATP is an active stakeholder and is
the voice of public transport
stakeholders on on a wider
and I would say a strategic point of
view so we are aware of the challenges
that cities are facing every day in
their single mobility but not only in in
relation to mobility but also in
relation to social inclusion
accessibility competitiveness etc and
for that reason we have been working
with cities because they recognize
really innovation as one of the main
tools to achieve sustainability and to
achieve livability so the objective of
this project of this yoomi index is to
provide a framework to assess the
maturity of ecosystems regarding
innovation in urban mobility this
project that has been developed as I
mentioned before with Rita see this
catapult under the sponsorship of Road
Transport Authority of Dubai by the UAT
Billy Intl association of public
transport what's the framework well we
have identified three dimensions and
nine levers these three dimensions are
readiness deployment and livability
readiness means whether the city have
really a vision has has a comprehensive
approach regarding mobility and
regarding in a novel innovation in in
mobility deployment means how effective
how effectively does the city really
enable for the introduction of
innovative mobility systems and
livability means how well is the city
prepared how well is the city performing
in terms of quality of life
it's of these three dimensions split or
break down into other three different
chapters that are the nine levels
liver's sorry as I mentioned before the
first one is a strategy that the city
has really any strategy not only the I
would say mobility strategy but the
wider urban strategy this is something
that we have evaluated the second one is
does the city have the capability
internally or through partnerships to
develop this another innovative approach
to mobility and the third one is the
soundness
the way
of using the data I mean we are getting
a lot of data a lot of different sources
of data are available but we are not
always combining and getting them to
achieve some information and afterwards
some knowledge yeah
in this sense we have work with
different cities and we have identified
as good examples in relation to a
strategy Los Angeles and Sydney in
relation to capability Amsterdam and
Barcelona and in relation to son’s
London and Singapore
the second dimension is deployment and
here we deal with regulation investment
and engagement regulation means whether
we are really prepared to facilitate
innovation or whether there are a lot of
different barriers that are in danger
the evolution and the development of
this innovation the second one is
investment not only owned investment by
the city but also the way and the
ability to mobilize external investment
and the third one is engagement whole
deep we do take into account the needs
of the citizens and the needs of the the
points of view of the different
stakeholders in this area we have
identified as kind of Champions of kind
of good very good examples in regulation
Dubai and Helsinki in investments Hong
Kong and Singapore and engagement Sydney
and London the third one is livability
yeah and here we have identified
connectivity will been an environment
connectivity means the possibility to
travel around the system with with what
we called seamless journeys yeah in an
integrated manner not only with public
transport system but also embracing
other actors or the mobility players
that are here wellbeing is how easy is
to travel or to move through this city
in what we call healthy travel more so
active modes and the third one is
environment it's how well the city
performs in terms of high quality energy
efficiency etc and here again some good
examples are Vienna and Helsinki for the
case of
activity and mobility as a service for
instance well-being where Amsterdam and
Geneva has scored very well and inviting
environment Lisbon and Montreal
well we have been working with 30
different cities holographs
all across the globe with different
economic context different political
situations different stages of
development and I mean we recognize that
innovation is really contextual also but
there are some trends that could be
identified at global level that are
really important to highlight most of
the data we are collected through
qualitative assessment through
interviews through meetings with the
different responsibles in all these 30
cities but also we structured the
information through quantitative data
through online and online online survey
and from this research to complete the
information that we get from this survey
main findings there is a lot to do still
in terms of strategy soundness and
regulation I mean technology is there
companies are there but it's at it's at
the level of strategy and mainly at the
level of calculation where we have still
a lot of work to do on the contrary
those cities that are performing better
a store that have developed the
capabilities both internally and through
partnerships and also that have their
own investment or they have they have
been able to attract the external
funding for the development of these
innovative solutions the main outcomes
of yummy-yummy forum which is a platform
where these 30 cities can't interchange
and can benchmark their activities in
relation to urban mobility the second
one is an urban mobility report that was
just released last Friday so I invite
you all to have a look today to the new
ITP website and to find this document we
are also working on position paper to
engage with decision-makers to pass the
message to the main decision makers and
we are also working on future steps that
are mainly
the improvement of the methodology and
the enlargement of the number of cities
that are taking part in this Yemi forum
I'm already out of time so I thank you
very much for your time and for your
attention thank you thank you very much
and if you're for stitching so perfectly
to the timing it was very interesting
and it's very profitable to have this
kind of studies in which indicators help
those companies and City to have a
better vision on what
they can develop our next speaker it's
his he's coming from from China his name
is mr. Wang jag Liang and he's the
deputy director of the Asian Industry
and Information Committee please
[Applause]
so NGO no cojes yeah be a Chicago human
tah-dah
Chavo freidank a co-host on yachts tect
a path alone at Rancho chakra tongue sir
wallah say Kochi delusion we don't wanna
go son verdict on Soto part alone are
super Chun soo hola hey Yong Chun Kuen
LUN tha
cheerful Alameda de andar en coup d'etat
a Susie Susie Swanson Letran so see ya
Jana zhongsan record Zoda transia
Chilean de jeugd true away Joshua trans
reference uno de una de ciencia Trenor
initial T bikini o / da da da da song
sua Swanson Ezrin sir
co-come oo-on Walter de Joe low vision
Scioscia Syria Bashar Assad candidate
rancher EDTA note sendin a supercharger
gentle semenchenko
en el teatro ha beep um po-pi-po to
Mombasa pencil say some Harvard
researcher Ho Chi Minh Truong sir Huang
Bo hey teacher
Cindy Johnson son Gaussian en todo en
parte de - Cody resent a since France in
Rio Rancho cargo - a sessions son go yo
son Kazuyo yelburton seein ya ha see
Ryan ichi-chan subpoena duces piano
Sensa saludo de girar la luna mo en un
jurado
ETA ETA Hoobler our java sido condenado
de ‡rbol de siiva
tundra Valley rapist Adagio our de Luna
p.m. hands under Ta'ala
Yoseob o th e ba ba da rosaldo
Eva - Eva leader Chihuahua certain
stretches of amia service se tiene
circuito chainsaw to know who Mia Ronco
an Honda Civic engine usually dodging
uchiha say Joshua trans-regional Fuji
primo estamos aqui to be trans Rajendra
a homozygote answer solar panels Rapinoe
Horton alida colleges Oh soo kzo kzo
osoo decision queer ha see ha ha no ha
no es ahora como parte de Pio cholo
Congress credo tiene una Sola father
Samia Samia transcendence watch o en el
sur votre dalla Chiesa rural churches
agua en el agua transer chasin a Zanussi
ha
Tony Salida Transylvania true Doc Ock we
donor chandra sudha chandran HH o virgin
jo jo tu te
swanson Ettinger kangen water what we
offer is a shot Kenyon's a sin ranchito
channel total education Teatro function
tanto Pamela Tina's oppa Solaris in un
sitio para seguir a son Goku Jacopo
Volusia favo colita de segunda credenza
pawpaw salon-quality sanguine Danza
qui-gon young un a sanguine Danza the
Angels from generation granules are this
is Seungyeon seducer son Landon's are
three so yoga Danza idiot only the enter
de San Juan de
presidents are
Silencio to confirm a puja tienes una
mentira para la gente no wanna say de
l'homme de creer que no tengo una
ensalada Agency moi je de la escena yo
ya tiene sentido criminal to me and okra
gonna see improvisational gyrotron her
chocha ibis Terraria
Kouta vuvuzela toronto services law
whoever Tanya we gonna yank em baba de
la da da da da ya tiene sentido tree
Gong Cheng hua Sundy trans Alamein
Saddam dr. Tozer
con otra gente como Cho tae-yong Tranter
volio yo dong quai de la musica techno
musica Kwan way show hey Zhu Li di vaar
Metro free come da da de da de CES
central Tampa da la nuit Sunday
preeminence in Ranchi da de da Mucha
tequila Venus de la gente ha ha se
siente to you Nancy reserva Mia yo
fugato soy yo Trisha see Bhuvan todo lo
Fogerty go see Santa
yo yo yo Jimmy Sochi children's hands Oh
psh Angela seceded sungazer Java Fujin
ha formation Ezra
say sube sunday sunday navy tow our
listeners oh yeah
shenzhen lock-on consonances lobizon
Sandow yo Java ladies Indian continent
Lanka Valerie Joe Joe Joe come on son
control isn't a dollar
Luo Cheng Baba looey Java zero we're
Sundra
Long John Silver's our Baga 100 Suzy a
ebay sorry you go
Mucha gente joven que lo cuido heart le
da Booma Eden's on Sunday shows Dupree
dr. Montero Vickers Oh Naruto la da
Tijuca ha muji de la l’nea children
forget forget Hongzhi de tienda de su
Navarro generation and heated add some
candy
tienes la moneda coalition control Togo
cheese random chicamahonee yeah scissor
banda wama who young Caesar
yet canon de tigre tangent Oh Gerard
want wah-wah some tremendous imagine
Tony deterrent a Jia Li gonadal Adagio
tandem diva teruya pergolas Oh Kaena
wake ribbon male yo holla Vargas Llosa
muy bueno y como uno de nuevo to Lucy
Joe Raposo
co-co-co true sir Yvonne Lo Nuestro Toya
half wolf answer teams juan de teatro en
todas in dodger
tosser saturation Rajendra de chenonceau
to nahi Jana Lyra pass Yugi foo-foo
Nunziata male yo don't misunderstand
oquana renae virgin mantra no way Jose
he translated on Sugie Sugie Hoover
Chico Chico mission in Sudan de TOI a
hot song version on tremendous Evo see
ya Joe gallo Pyong hey santosh auditor
Raja
rencontre no buzu eso es Juan de Letran
co-catalyst on risotto panacea gelatine
en avaiable
sun goddess Angela away Satan in Doha
generally ranchito TN z OG Tokido Sango
you know where Sasha's Colin Serio
seguro zhanka tomorrow hopefully
I know Lassiter tiene cosas que tengo
una vez esta la sidney-ando yochi 30th
the ocean to ocean survey de la cosa
nostra producer solution ruko Pampanga
canoe yoshiya Scalia
Saddam Cody rugosa modo que ha sido una
don't take a trip out to the Sunni Pune
Surat al the janitor to sue eternal Tony
Danza
now you see eloquentia Tigger Tigger
Suhana today we are gonna go see Rachel
on da way that Kenny Estrella rock where
the Comanche on latrine on Cody
chillin codec Romeo parada en el corazon
de Lucia Trillin choi jung jong hoon Jae
dong xiang yingdong sir ahora si una
muchacha de Chardin - aah - aah - aah
knock on door closer come yo too low
[Applause]
thank you very much mr. jinglun for also
stitching to the to the timings and I
was we mind that there is a on the app
of the Congress the Smart City Expo app
there is a place that it's called
a scam boat that is used to make
questions to the panel so whatever you
think you might we be willing to to know
further of what it's been explained you
can put your question there and then
through a system of boarding you can
promote that question if you think that
it's also interesting for you Thank You
mr. the exam for explaining such a
complete presentation and on the strata
and this very ambitious strategy for the
polling and a smart series we told it it
company it was burnt arresting to listen
our next speaker he comes from the
United Kingdom he's been here many times
already well Joe is interesting to
listen him again he's the founder and
managing director from urban foresight
and he's an expert in power in policy
technology and business models for
smarter emission series and this David
good afternoon I won't be talking in
Mandarin today so yeah I think half the
room will be happy about that perhaps
half the room right
I CEO of a company called omen foresight
we are a strategy and innovation
consultancy focused on future cities as
you can imagine with a name like urban
foresight we spend a lot of our time
thinking about the future but I'm
actually going to start looking
backwards today and thinking about the
past and tell you the story of what's
happened since I spoke at the first
edition of the Smart City Expo back in
2011 to the present day where in
September of this year the First
Minister of Scotland announced the
intention to phase out petrol and diesel
fuel vehicles from Scotland by 2030 -
that's eight years ahead of the rest of
the UK so I'll give you the the kind of
background in the story to how we got to
that point and talk to you about our
emerging thinking in a space and how
we're hoping to take things forward in
in Scotland so back in 2011 we were kind
of a fever pitch in terms of excitement
we were waiting for the vehicles to
arrive we there was a perception that
demand seemed to outstrip supply and
people were willing to pay whatever it
took to get the hands on electric
vehicle and in 2012 when we could
finally buy one we started to realize
that all the challenges that were
involved in in creating these
opportunities for mass adoption of
electric vehicles so we traveled the
world looking for best practice in
cities trying to understand what the
leading evie cities around the world
were doing and we published a report
called the V City case book which is a
sort of Lonely Planet guide to leading e
V cities and what we learned from this
was the complexities of preparing for
mass adoption of electric vehicles the
complex systems of hard and soft
infrastructure that needs to be
implemented in cities to create
opportunities for widespread use of v's
and we took this learning into the
production of a road map for Scotland's
National Transport Agency Transport
Scotland and tried to take a sort of
system's level view of what was required
to create these ecosystems for mass
adoption of electric vehicles
importantly what we're trying to do here
is to explain that it really wasn't just
about recharging infrastructure or
incentives it was about creating an
entire system to support widespread
adoption of electric vehicles but we
recognized that we were at the very foot
of the s-curve for mass adoption so we
were very much focused on what we could
do to launch and then grow markets for
electric vehicles and of course you
can't take it for granted that you will
reach the point where you have mass
adoption of electric vehicles so the
challenge for us was really to try and
work out how we could cross the chasm to
the point where we had technology
enthusiasts or committed
environmentalists that are driving
electric vehicles to the point where we
had mainstream adopters driving around
in ultra low emission vehicles so we
went back on our travels again and
traveled the world looking for more what
we call big ideas and for us these were
the technologies that policies the
business models that were going to help
us bridge that gap between today in that
future electric vehicle adoption
and a big learning point from that was
understanding the role of cities and
local incentives to create these
ecosystems for mass adoption and and
their various assets and powers that
local governments have to support
adoption of electric vehicles and partly
as a result of deploying these
incentives we started to see things
picking up in 2016 so this is global
adoption of electric vehicles you'll see
that we reached the 2 million point
worldwide terms of numbers of cars on
the road and pleasingly you start to see
the start of that s-curve terms of take
off so when we sat down again in 2017 to
work out how to take forward or roadmap
into its second phase we start to think
about that that challenge of growing
markets for electric vehicles and then
exactly what we needed to do and this is
what we came up with so to talk through
this in in in its entirety the the
starting point for us was realizing the
outcomes that we were trying to achieve
the sort of test that we wanted to see
demonstrated when we were trying to make
a decision on whether we would do
something or not and this came down to
three key things three key outcomes that
we were looking to achieve we're looking
to decrease the cost of using electric
vehicles we're looking to enhance the
convenience of electric vehicles and
importantly we were trying to engineer
that cultural change that behavior
change required to make the switch to
ultra-low emission vehicles the second
thing was realizing that a lot of the
work that we've been doing had been
around establishing the enabling
conditions for electric vehicles making
it possible for people to use electric
vehicles in Scotland but actually the
challenge that we faced was to move
beyond that to a point where people
enjoyed using electric vehicles or it
was desirable or super convenient to use
electric vehicles so we started thinking
about that in terms of a product
development stack or a hierarchy of
needs and recognized that we had to move
from enabling infrastructure up to a
mobility services and a platform
services type approach and the objective
beyond that is to go from those services
to specific applications of electric
vehicles where we can start
demonstrating and realizing tangible
benefits to individuals to organizations
and communities across Scotland
we identified a series of actions to
focus our investments and activity and
the one that I want is specifically
single out is this concept of Evie
charging helps because I think it really
embodies this approach and this this way
of thinking about electric mobility so
an Evie charging hub is many different
things to many different people but
essentially is a place where you can
charge multiple electric vehicles at
once and it typically integrates a range
of different facilities and services and
infrastructure be that for car sharing
for cycling be that for integration with
public transport maybe even some retail
or leisure facilities as part of that
premises as well 11:4 site has spent
quite a lot of time over the last 18
months undertaking commercial strategies
and feasibility studies for Evie
charging helps across the UK and I don't
have time to go through that in too much
detail but just to single out a few
different pointers to take into account
first is to recognize the the
opportunity to provide more than just
Evie charging infrastructure and range
of facilities and the challenges that
exist around forecasting demand and
developing long term commercial business
models ahead of the vehicles being on
the road and the other thing that we're
doing is we run a living lab in a city
in Scotland called Dundee so we're
currently building three of these hubs
in the city but we're also looking to
innovate and we have a call for
innovative proposals where we're looking
for smart mobility solutions that we can
help you to test and demonstrate in the
city to have a million pounds to invest
in these projects so please do come talk
to me if you have any good ideas so in
terms of three closing thoughts first is
around cost so electric vehicles as
you'll see from this graph are becoming
cheaper the important message here is
not only a battery cost decreasing an
energy density increasing but the
technologies that are in the R&D; stage
are getting cheaper and more effective
however we also need to consider the
cost to the public purse and the capital
asset write-off required to create
viable of operating models for EB
infrastructure the second is around
convenience and the objective to make it
enjoyable fun
desirable to use electric vehicles in
the cities and have have a more service
provision approach to to electric
vehicle infrastructure operation and the
final big one is around culture change
recognizing that ultimately what we're
trying to do is encourage people to make
different and better decisions about how
they move around cities that may be
personal transport but it may be other
ways and the electric vehicle is merely
an enabler of that change and we have to
think about how we can bring it about
thank you very much for your time
amazing
he made the clock at zero zero eight
minutes so that's very good thank you
very much for your presentation again
his he's combining a little bit that
topics we were seeing in the two
previous presentation so we were saying
indicators in the first one a city
deployment of us money status in the
Sangha in the second one here he's
focusing under on the deployment of the
electric vehicle in in the what is
necessary to have a successful strategy
to really have more electric vehicles
circulating in our streets and he puts
the the highlight in the in the costs
and the infrastructure in the service
and the convenient announcing that
necessary cultural changes that need to
occur that that's very it's it's very
challenging and something's difficult
from the urban administrations to help
and to to foster that cultural change
okay our next speaker and he comes from
Alstom he's the innovation manager there
at Alstom he will be he's dealing at the
Aston digital mobility within the open
innovation ecosystem which means that he
deals with the multimodal transport
solutions that estimate its developing
and he will be actually
mobility if we talk about mobility we
need to think about the passenger
mobility is passenger centric and if we
move to the new paradigms like mobility
as a service and of course multimodal
there's something missing now and what
is we believe that coordination among
all these solution these possibilities
is what we're missing so that's why we
brought about mass tria mafia is our
multimodal Orchestrator mobility overlay
for coordination in in a city or in a
region I can give you an example with an
orchestra you can think of an orchestra
playing a symphony and of course every
musician knows very well how to play
their instrument knows their score this
in front of them
but they're missing something they're
missing for once what's happening on the
other side of the orchestra is something
wrong there they're missing also the
general beat and that's the mission of
the conductor the conductor is not
playing the instrument that they the
musicians know very well how to play
their instruments but it gives the
general beat it coordinates everything
so now I'm going to show you if it works
hopefully a video with some use cases of
of mastiha see somewhere here should be
the play here
[Music]
Central Station 912 a.m. something
unexpected is happening on line 5 the
Metro has come to a standstill at the
Metro Control Center the security post
has triggered the alarm a camera has
detected people on the tracks the power
is immediately cut the traffic will be
stopped for at least an hour five
streets away at the master e'er
Operations Center people already know
about it indeed when the Metro agent
stopped line five the alert was
automatically triggered and this message
is blinking in red on the screen here
they keep an eye on all the city's
transport networks coordinating them
like a conductor in less than a minute
masked areas algorithms had already
devised steps to prevent bottlenecks
adapting the city's traffic reorganizing
it and managing the incident itself the
masked area operator receives the
procedure to be followed he just has to
choose from among several options he
selects bus commuter trains passenger
information maintenance for any damage
to the rails police and the fire
department
each of these players receives an alert
in real time through their operation
center connected to maestria bus
frequency is increased and the commuter
trains get ready for a massive influx of
passengers at the station the agents
provide passengers with updates and
alternatives maintenance is already on
site in just one hour
thanks to mass tria Metro is finally
able to get going again 10:30 a.m. on
another day masked area receives a
message from the city's weather service
heavy snow is expected in three days
time with temperatures down to minus ten
degrees Celsius based on the data it
collects every day master er knows that
commuters will be reluctant to drive
their cars so the algorithms prepare a
crisis plan this process involves
increasing transport capacity the bus
Metro and train companies are alerted
and Mastry Alette s-- them know how much
they must each increase their traffic
mass tria prevents a disruption even
before it happens
it can also plan in the longer term for
a concert scheduled in the city or a
major sporting event thanks to mass tria
to the bus metro and tram services we'll
be forewarned that they'll need to
provide extra capacity Mastry also
alerts private ride-sharing and city
bike services so that all contributes a
smooth traffic more than a simple tool
mastiha is becoming a real partner for
cities it guarantees all of us smooth
traffic in the city now and in the
future okay with this you see more or
less what we're trying to focus with
Master I'll try to go a little bit in
detail you have very little time on how
we do that we've built what we call
value layers because of course every
city is different every region is
different so we can't need to adapt the
first layer is information of course we
can show every piece of data that we can
gather how the transport is moving
what's happening incidents everything so
you can actually see what's happening on
top of that we can do analytics to see
to understand actually why those things
are happening this is an example of a
city we did with some regulation but we
can do diagnostics and predictive
analytics also and of course once you
know what's happening and why it's
happening you need to act it's not only
in the long term but you would like to
act in the short term trying to provide
solutions as the as the video explained
this of course is a very very quick snap
of what Messiah is is doing I have no
time to go in detail but I wanted to
tell you that tomorrow at the press room
which is right by by the entrance at the
South door we will be holding a demo
session to the whole morning of our
digital mobility
which of course include mastiha you can
go there see touch and and ask questions
but also orb a map or our security
digital solutions like iconic security
or video analytics and that's all for me
I think it was even closer okay thank
you thank you very much Alberto our and
that was burnt arresting to see also how
I mean if this has happened from many
years already that automotive industry
have already changed their disk use and
they are not providing only cars but
they are providing mobility services or
they are at least trying to to explain
that that is what they are doing it and
it is good to see also that the main
public transport infrastructure
companies are also seeing themselves as
part of a mobility system that have that
has a more much more complex well it's
in here or a trip for everyone that it's
not just composed by just one minam's
transferred but it's part of a trip that
combines a part of Icicle private
vehicle and public transport some part
that you can be working and they try of
course to to be part of that of that way
of making your trips around the city and
also keeping your your industry and your
well that the public transportation
working at all times so thanks for that
explanation our last speaker for for
this panel this this afternoon it's Nico
Anton he comes he's the managing
director from connect I TS Netherlands
which is a his long-term strategy
managing director that that that company
he's he's in charge of linking more than
400 private and public organs
organizations
mobility and transport so thank you for
for coming and for your explanation well
good afternoon it is a pleasure to be in
Barcelona outside the sun is shining and
always when I'm here in Barcelona the
sun is shining and if you live in the
Netherlands that is something you really
can value so I'm happy to be to be here
if you have been in the Netherlands and
you travel there one of our writers once
said traveling in the Netherlands is
very peculiar if you want to drive
you're standing still in a traffic jam
but on the other hand if you want to
stand still if you want to park your car
you just keep on drawing directing to
find a parking spot so I think that is a
challenge we have how can we make sure
that our mobility will become smooth and
sustainable and making that way our city
is very liveable well by the
introduction connections already
introduced so I will skip this slide
these are images from cities today and
today cities people are living there
they want to work there if they go to
their jobs they want to travel fast they
want to travel safe they don't want to
get struck in a traffic jam but also
they want to entertain themselves but on
the other hand they also want that the
air in the city is clean and they also
want that when they order something fire
the internet that is delivered fast and
when they go to a shop that everything
is there and they don't have to wait or
when things are out of order and in a
way all those modern demands of people
living in a city are competing with each
other and I think our challenge is how
can we make the system that smooth that
it will in the end can address all the
needs of modern people and one way monk
eristic in the Netherlands about
traveling is the following already for
more than 60 years people are willing to
travel about well let's say 70 to 90
minutes a day and since traveling became
faster and smoother it meant that people
do not live in cities anymore but also
the spread around increasing more and
more demand for mobility and we have to
address this challenge and one thing I
did not mention on the previous slides
is well the fact that we need clean air
since two weeks there's a new government
in the Netherlands and the government
will make a climate law and they will
say we will put a low everything we
agree to in Paris two years ago and it
means for the Netherlands that the
pollution produced by vehicles by
lorries by trucks by fence has to be
reduced by a factor of six if you really
want to comply to these goals this is a
huge challenge and the only thing we can
meet this challenge and right with it is
when we really change the way we think
we change the way we organize and
needed to make a lot of use of
technology and one concept I'd like to
talk about his mobility as a service it
was already mentioned by the previous
speaker and would it be great that all
the different ways you can travel
whether it's you were the better it's an
public transport company whether it is a
bicycle where it is your own car or a
bus that it would be organized in a
fairly easy way for you so that you
don't have to figure it out all for
yourself because if it's too complex you
just you will just keep to continue to
use the thing you are happy with so if
you use to drive a car and you it is
easy for you not to change when the
change is made complex for you but if
you can make this change easy that would
be a solution and that is the aim of
mobility as a service how can we
organize our mobility in a different way
there are several levels of the way you
can organize mobility as a surface and
already quite some companies and in
quite some country with countries there
has been a lot of experience how you can
influence the way people think about
mobility and if they want to make a
shift and it is interesting that by
experience in Finland that is proved
that when you offer the better surface
to people and you charge them a fair
price that people change their behavior
not only for the test period but they
continued in changing their behavior it
shows if you organize things in a better
way people you can really change the
behavior of people and we don't know
what the future of mobility as a service
will be there are three different models
on the left-hand side you see the winner
takes it all that is the way now how
Facebook or Alibaba
or Amazon or Apple is working if you're
the first one and if you are the best
one
there's hardly any competition the other
model which could be the one is that the
public transport companies will take
their responsibility and the table start
to organize mobility as a service but
personally to my humble opinion I don't
think that will be the future because it
really means that you as a public
transport company you have to rethink
the way you organize everything so the
third model and I think from a consumer
point of perspective that will be the
best one is when there will be multiple
service providers meaning that like all
like your own telephone that if you
travel from one city to another city
your technology your app on your
telephone just change from one provider
to another one you don't have to think
about it it is all organized for your
for yourself for your and more surface
profiles also means that there will be
competition so as a consumer it will
offer us the best price but for this we
need to change the way we think there is
a bit of a downside if we improve
mobility and one down side was tested in
in lissabon by one of our members PTV
and if you organize mobility in a better
way and you make it more seamless then
the downside is that people are going to
travel more so it does not mean that
organizing things in a better way will
reduce trifle so that you have to keep
that also in mind but on the other hand
a better used modes of transport also
means that you need less of them so we
also will get our streets back what we
need in the end is if you want to make a
success of mobility as a service we need
three shifts the changing role of
collaboration public and private
authorities needs to collaborate
together companies needs to collaborate
together what we also need is a changing
role to commuters we need to get
rid of the idea that we need to own our
own car no we have to make a shift from
owning to make use of and the third
shift you have to make is another way of
how we make use of systems and
technology technology should be
everywhere it should be based on open
standards we need a lot of security and
we also have to make the technology
simple in a way that it will stimulate
in the end innovation but that was in
brief my ideas about mobility as a
service thank you for your attention
[Applause]
it's the Sunnis Buddhist
and now and we will have em well thank
you very much for your presentation that
was very interesting to to see how these
mobility the services can can help us
all and to have a more convenient
transport and mobility in cities through
collaboration between public and private
partners through sharing the means of
transfers and through the technology
that you have to facilitate all these
all these systems now we will have
questions and answers first well there
are two microphones one microphone here
so if anyone has a question please just
stand up and come here and and make your
questions and I also have gathered some
some well we have gathers through these
AB system some questions that I will be
now it's asking to the panelists so the
first one that got more votes it's
asking regarding and the battery battery
lives in electric vehicles will battery
life ever be great enough to allow
vehicles especially those involved in
public transport to be able to do a full
day's work so maybe both for I guess we
can ask this referring to taxis or to or
to buses but whoever in the panelist
field that can answer this it's it's
microphone yeah so yeah well electric
vehicles are suitable for many
applications today including taxis and
logistics vehicles so the range is
achievable batteries can be as big as
you want them to be you just have to pay
more for bigger batteries so there is no
perceivable difficulty we also know how
far people travel so we understand that
most journeys that are made are within
the traveling distance of the vast
majorities of journeys that are made
today in terms of degradation so how the
battery performance decreases over time
we've had electric vehicles driving in
the world for a long time now and we on
the whole haven't seen much appreciable
degradation of batteries so it's not
something we're concerned about most
vehicle manufacturers offer warranties
to a company batteries of up to nine
years or so so yeah electric vehicle
battery degradation isn't it isn't a big
problem at the moment another point of
view may be well and we have another
question what is the most demanding area
for innovation in in public transport it
is a it is payment it is a passenger
information it is a accessibility trip
planning may be something else
well III think that they all but one one
very important thing is skills of the
people that is working now in public
transport I mean on mobility yeah this
is something that we have to work a lot
because at the end technology is
somewhere there more or less advanced in
the different countries in the different
places but one thing that we are working
now very deeply with the different
operators and authorities is to develop
this talent and these skills that are
needed to really achieve the new
challenges of digitalization the use of
data etc on public transport thank you
now Alberto from Alstom yes yeah I would
say that for me at least the most
important innovation way now is the
changing paradigms we need to change
everything we shouldn't do what we we've
been doing for many years in a different
way we should try because digital and
other things enable us to do things
different like mobility as a service for
instance so I think the the most
interesting and challenging thing is how
to change really the paradigms of of
ability and now when one question coming
from from myself we have many of us in
our presentations have talked about the
necessity of fostering the cultural
change what do you think that this
cultural change made might come from I
mean it is a how which collaboration it
is needed between public and private
organizations what what is the role of
citizenship in this cultural change then
that can happen what from your point and
from your organization's can help in
this necessary cultural change that we
need to have a more sustainable
or the mobility paradigm I mean if we
have if we want people to take to share
more of their vehicles if we want them
to use more public transport and and
maybe to use more electric vehicles a
day what they are that they are using it
is something that we can explain it is
something that we can enforce through
regulation it is something that we can
put a congestion or emission tax what do
you think are there are the necessary
things to develop to have this cultural
necessary necessary cultural change
I think telling and showing so just so
that it just showed that it works so I
think it is good that the government
should invest in a new ways of mobility
and that the industry then also should
take the responsibility and if it works
that they will foster this these new
solutions and but I think what also is
very helpful the way mobility is now
organized is from a broader point of
view just done by for financial reasons
so if you would really change the way
the you pay taxes then you could also
foster the change of behavior so given
in financial impulse that makes us also
from a financial point of view seamless
interesting point of view yes well we
have to just one more minute
no just quickly I think someone said
that people don't hate change
people hate being changed so actually I
think what we need is to make things
easy for people so they really want to
become part of the change if we make
them it it may work for a time but we
need to find a way to convince people
that this is a the right way and it's
easier and better for them okay thank
you very much that where time is up for
this afternoon just to highlight what
we've been talking and through this
session we've talked about indicators
the strategy infrastructures and
services
we've talked about cultural change and
the complexity of linking public and
private stakeholders in in the city to
make a more sustainable sitting which
the public transport is better and more
use the means of transport are share and
we have a greater degree of utilization
of the electrical vehicle of this is
very complex we know all of us are
working close to cities and we see year
by year what are the model splits that
we get in our cities and their taste
change livery very slowly while the
alarms of the of the climate change and
and and and the effects that the
emissions of the of the current mobility
amines are having in our health are
showing us that we don't have that much
time to actually make make this change
happen so thank you for your work in all
in in changing our our cities and
improving them in the way we use them
and to make them less polluting and more
sustainable thank you for them for your
work and thank them give a hand to the
panelists
