Title: Rethinking Urban Governance: Cities at the Service of Population´s Needs
 
Subject: Multilevel Governance
* Governance
Abstract: 

Worldwide cities are progressively adopting diverse solutions to improve the efficiency of urban services, such as transport, waste management and water and energy supply. Yet, an urban governance based on city data and open models powered by the latest open source technologies has hardly been explored. How can city leaders develop citizen-centric governance to make better informed decision-making and be at the service of population’s needs?

Speakers: 

Mateu Hernández
Aisha Bin Bishr
Joan Ribó i Canut
Massimiliano (Max) Claps
Candace Byrd
Pilar Torres

Conference: 

okay we're now going to move on to our
first plenary session of this Congress
now there's going to be lots of
different planning sessions throughout
the three days and they really are a
chance hello to debate different visions
in our almost round table setup up on
the stage
so for each time I'm going to introduce
a new chair who's going to lead the
discussions and we'll also be opening up
to the audience so if you have questions
and please do contribute towards that
so these plan recessions are really
about hearing real experiences and
practices too when it comes to
developing smart cities so let me hand
over to our chair of the first plenary
session which is called rethinking urban
governance cities at the service of
populations needs Mattie Mattie o
Hernandez is the managing director of
Barcelona global he's previously been
the CEO for economic development for the
city where he helped coordinate policies
on employment entrepreneurship and
attracting foreign investment so please
give a very warm welcome to mr.
Hernandez 

let me introduce myself I will
be chairing this session I met Evan and
the CEO of Barcelona global which is a
private platform made up of about 700
members in Barcelona fully private that
once Barcelona not only to be a smart
city but especially to be one of the
best cities in the world for talent and
economic activity but my role today is
to moderate these fantastic speakers
that we have here on the stage on a
session that's the first plenary session
and and the topic of this session is the
relation of government think technology
and people when smart cities movement
began everything was related to
technology and we were talking about
technology technology and technology and
today six years after this Congress
began today we are talking about how
technology serves people helps people to
be happiest as she will explain us help
people health cities to be more equal as
people in in Atlanta will will take
we'll talk about help cities too
be more friendly like in Valencia and
then we will have also how technology is
helping those projects we have five
fantastic speakers from different parts
of the world
first we have I been dr. IVA bin bish
general director of the smart Dubai
office she will explain us many things
about what's going on there in the
Middle East in a fantastic strategy on
smart cities and she will surprise you
on the concept of what she thinks a
smart city is then we also have the
mayor of Balan Thea a jewelry wall he's
been in charge of about two years and
changing completely a city from a
different model to a new model much more
sustainable and smart then we have also
another the chief of staff of the mayor
of Atlanta of the condensed built that
coming from the States for coming from a
fully different City as the
Mediterranean cities are not a dense
city but a very sprawled City so and she
will talk a lot on how technology and
then we have two main companies helping
those cities to proceed we have
Massimiliano coming from Milano from sa
P and also Pilar Torres coming from
Madrid from Amazon services so they will
speak for about three to four minutes at
the beginning to introduce themselves
and to introduce their strategy and then
we will begin a dialogue I will raise
the first question and then you have
technology to be used through your
smartphones so supposedly there's
something here that I will receive your
questions so write your questions on
your smart phone on your tablet and
people will be able to vote for those
questions so I will know with which
questions you feel are important or
relevant or whatever and so we will ask
through that platform I will take notes
of those questions and we will race and
also if somebody is really willing to
show his face he or she will have the
opportunity to take a micro and to speak
to that today to the people so without
anything else let's let's begin with
with I see a dr. Asha from Hawaii so
please thank you
good morning ladies and gentlemen it is
a delight to be with you today and I
look forward to a great conversation and
thank you Matthew for hosting us at yet
another specular event this year cities
as we know have evolved over thousands
of years guided and built by human hands
and designs to serve the needs of the
people who live in these cities but to
help them to be more happier hundreds of
years of trial and trial and error
innovation and failure have created the
great cities of the world that we known
today beautiful cities like Barcelona
where you can stroll along a waterfront
or sample delicious foods or lose
yourself in the alleys and shops of an
old neighborhood over centuries cities
city governments have learned how to
regulate protect and govern the
resources and infrastructure that flow
through our cities and make them work in
many ways the history of cities is the
history of human innovation but with
each new wave of an innovation city
governments had to raise to K pace today
we are in the middle of another wave of
innovation digital innovation and that
wave is building and rolling much faster
than any change that has come before
just think about how much has changed
for cities between 2011 when this
conference was founded and today Airbnb
uber 4G and 5g cellular networks Siri
Cortana Alexa and blockchain the pace of
change has been dizzying and some some
cities sadly are falling behind it is
the more agile and often more daring
governments who are emerging as the
leaders and this race will the end goal
as always as people happiness
fifty years ago when man first walked on
the moon my city Dubai was building its
first generator today Dubai was one of
the most advanced power and water plants
in the world and we are quickly
transitioning to having 25 percent of
our energy come from clean energy
resources by 2030 from no paved roads
and my father's lifetime Dubai now has
the world's largest autonomous longest
autonomous metro and tram services and
we are well on our way to achieve our
goal of making 25% of all trips taking
in my city by train car bus or both
autonomous by 2030 in three years time
we will be launching a satellite a probe
designed and built in Dubai by Emiratis
to travel to Mars yes to travel to Mars
to conduct the most comprehensive study
of that planet atmosphere that has ever
been completed and in hundred years
we'll be sending manned mission to Mars
this is all happen in Dubai how does the
46 year old country do such we are
motivated by conviction that cities
exist to promote the well-being of our
residents and visitors and that as city
leaders we must use every tool available
to use to promote the happiness of our
people for the cities of the past those
tools were shovels cranes and steel but
today data is our tool and we are using
blockchain Internet of Things and
artificial intelligence to make Dubai
the happiest city on earth tools to
design a government blockchain that will
make paper work I think of the past and
access to world-class blockchain
enterpreneurs who can build it tools to
test and train artificial intelligence
solutions in an AI lab an AI services
and systems that will
shape our city for the future today it
is no longer enough for governments to
sit back and regulate the solutions that
others have invented for us we must take
an active role not only in creating the
right enabling environment for
innovation to keep place through policy
and legislation and industry development
but we we also become innovators
ourselves we have to roll up our sleeves
and get to work
at smart way we are experimenting
testing sometimes failing but contuine
Alize is striving to create the city of
the future today this is a - this is
what we are doing and Dubai and will be
my honor to share with you some of these
lessons and I encourage you to visit us
at our stand here and the conference
thank you thank you thank you thank you
dr. Aisha so keep in mind what she said
to build a happier city using technology
and smart City which is a nice concept
making citizens happier and making
things easy is good for them to be
happier so from a 46 years old city now
we shift to much older City can be
emotionally that mucho mas Antigua mucho
mas muy Mediterranea tenemos el alcalde
de Valencia UN rêve okay no salary
espanol Pro tanto que los que no lo no
lo comp Rendon would listen at religion
simultaneous perfor in Senor vivo Bon
dia in pre-med over a garage faire la in
Vita Fiona participar and in esta
session del his mercy T Expo de
Barcelona es una nor poder compartir is
the yellow combos otros que de sel
embrace our activist male investigación
la formación hola gestion pública
trabajas para mejorar la ciudad es que
Atomos muchos lucano cerise pero me
gustaría present arrows matilda
valencia la tercera few dot Espanola en
términos de población enter menos de
PE vein
s capital del área metropolitana de
unos meses millionaires Evatt antes de
una comunidad autónoma de Cinco million
SAV tantas militia tiene una gran Boca
film technologically soon achieved a
Christian associate with yours
municipalities transversal mente de una
manera intelligent a a traversal a
strategy ax Valencia ciudad intelligent
the semi ponto de vista lo mas
importante is a loose of the los datos
kahan eran las tecnologías in all as
technology SNC las a smart city so known
ingrediente club' in la mejora de las
ciudades
in nuestro dia via por que la same a
sustainable inclusive a' prosperity
versa pero sólo cuando shown in the
leaders common media in oak Amalfi Nancy
mismo acident and emotion Valencia
communion focus general the politicus of
runners st. Radha's in las personas last
strategies a smart city balanced eeeh
Ciudad intelligent people - Avila
plataforma they feel that intelligent a
desarrollo de un TOA telefónica la
plata forma
elaborado mejor r la gestion de los
servicios de la ciudad de valencia
Assamese maha bodhi sido la atención de
financiación para desarrollar Nostra
iniciativa
in pull so well Valencia en en la
dirección de una ciudad más officiant
a Yas habitable para la propias intra
vania y para nuestros habitants
esta plataforma de spawn a de una serie
de Rami entus para Sircar la
información de la strategy los datos
que nerado's a toda la ciudad Aniyah
Itamar decisiones
deform efficacy intelligente in pre-med
over la valencia disponible NC a--
de-spawn una mobile de ciudad que NOS
permit a consult our todo lo recursos
que puede ver an austere dreaded or
transporte público centro sagittario's
a park am en toes etc a si como interact
o air con el ayuntamiento yo munich are
inside NCI comentarios sobre los
servicios municipal s portal de datos de
ciudad a's este en este portal se pueden
consult our los indica doors de Ciudad
de Valencia
nose con algunas de las principal
ciudades del mundo portal de datos
Javier des date of milk in face
el ayuntamiento pone a disposition
investigadores empresa so on trend or s
dato toda la información de la ciudad
para poder jenner are nuevos estudios
jenner are tambien nuevos maderos de
negocio Quadro de mando de la ciudad ser
conseguido otra vez desde Quadro de
mando monitory ser más de cuatro
cientos in cuenta indica doors deceive
daddy desert videos monitor ballets a
disposition de los restores de nuestras
you dad
Valencia Alma nude esta página web pony
exposición de la ciudad Ania
todos a Keo recurso sclab a de la ciudad
en los que de spondee formación n
tiempo real se como el pulso de la
ciudad otra vez de la Rey de sociales
geoportal
desde finales de dos mil veces el
ayuntamiento puso a disposition de toda
la ciudad Daniel a portal con le que
puede consult our cualquiera at ohio
referencia doe
exist Entei en la ciudad de valencia me
gustaría Darla's algunos ejemplos de
como esta información mejora el dia dia
de las personas de la lectura
en tiempo real del consumo de agua en
todos los lo o goddess in ago CIO's de
la ciudad
monito dies a she owned al minuto de la
calidad de ley de índice into's puntos
de la ciudad kono sistema de alerta
zabba Dabba nia
control del consume o y del estado de la
lune brado público en la ciudad
proyecto Piloto en el mercado municipal
de rue Safa in solando Trentham eddie
doors que permitting controller a foros
temperatura uma da para facility' el dia
dia de vendedores
ik lien days osa explicar a todos estos
casos y hace falta durante la sección
hora quiero hacer are esta intervention
desta condo Valencia tiene una strategy
a console e da de Posada na gestion en
los datos abierto x' y ella gestion
intelligent a de los servicios municipal
a's Damon e de vertical pero también
trois versa la plataforma Palencia
Ciudad intellagen no solo abre la
posibilidad agenor are mejoras dentro de
la
Tom bientôt seen ok permitted SRO yeah
doors investigadores yen presses Jenner
are in quezon un sentido Amplio con el
approach am en toda toda esta
información pública immediate lesson
veto KBC 10 Nastassja dad
una few that intelligent a they feel de
Bono's is Eva Anna's interest in this
muchas gracias muchas gracias john
travolta de valència un elemento
importante de su intervention que es
esencial para esta es la collaboration
public o privada que ella mention oddo
ADIZ ok para hacer todas estas
aplicaciones al servicio de los Medanos
say necesitas trabajar
Markovic odo con la cm presses naan unna
caliente probe a door cliente sino en un
Alianza como estan haciendo con con
telefónica en valencia este congreso
precisamente ba de esto para tanto que
se pan que lo que what's happening here
what she explained from dubai what he
just explained from valencia
his collaboration with companies and SI
p is present down up down there with the
stands so you can have the chance to
visit what telefónica what SI p who's
not gonna speak he's doing and for for
smart cities now with the tone from
Massimiliano
he comes from SI p he just landed from
Milano and s AP you know everybody knows
who si Pease but usually we realize si P
as a company devoted to big companies
big banks big factories trying to help
them to arrange whatever they do and now
he's gonna explain how s ap is helping
cities to develop smart cities
so my simile I know Thank You Matteo and
when I see us good morning ladies and
gentlemen it's a pleasure to be here
my name is Max no need to learn the full
name
I am the global lead for s AP future
cities team which means there's a group
of expert that know deeply about your
daily business your domain your
activities what you're trying to achieve
in terms of growing the economy of the
city
improving mobility and transport
managing the environment and resources
in a more effective way governing the
internal administration more efficiently
and allocating resources and last but
not least so most importantly providing
services to the people in the city in a
different way that's what we do day in
and day out we apply our 40 years
history in terms of investing in
technology in applications and bring
that experience into innovative areas
like machine learning or artificial
intelligence blockchain the Internet of
Things what we call our Leonardo
capabilities and we work with cities to
really enable change
I was thinking yesterday I had a chance
to meet with some colleagues as well as
with some customers and I was asking
myself if we had talked about a future
of cities ten years ago we would have
probably been at a urban planning or
architecture conference but in the past
five or six years the word has been
meeting at a technology conference
whether it's information technology or
whether it's equipments and autonomous
driving and those kind of things we're
meeting at a technology conference
because technology is really enabling
and triggering change in the way cities
collaborate with the ecosystem in the
way they innovate processes like
measuring consumption of water or
measuring the happiness of citizens and
figuring out new business models to
provide better services I was talking to
a city in eastern europe that is
tracking the movement of tourists
throughout the city and maybe reusing
some of that data for economic
development to help the local businesses
and retailers understand the pattern
of our citizen and tourists the ABE
throughout the city and that's what we
do we commit to do and we're investing
as a.s.a.p
alt cities drive value out of technology
it's not technology for the technology's
sake it's driving value out of the
strategic element that is the data and
the information that the cities have and
so I'm really pleased to be here and
have the chance to share the stage with
such distinguished speakers and please
visit our booth to discuss these topics
thank you Thank You max just mentioning
we were talking some years ago when
series about city planners and now we
are talking about technology that's
that's that's a great shift on the
concept and now let's let's let's fly to
Atlanta one of cities very friend a
close friend from Barcelona also an
Olympic City plenty of big companies
there and now we have the honor to have
the chief of staff of the mayor of
Atlanta that he/she will will will
introduce what Atlanta is doing so miss
condense please the floor is yours thank
you and good morning
India I am pleased to represent our
mayor mayor Kasim Reed as well as the
city of Atlanta as Mac said as Matt said
the proud home of the Centennial Olympic
Games at this Smart City Expo in the
great city of Barcelona the heart and
host of the city of the 1992 Olympic
Games the city of Atlanta is the cradle
of the civil rights movement in America
home to the world's busiest airport and
one of the fastest growing technology
centers in North America thanks to our
financial stability are progressive
residents and our strategic business
community we are facing an exciting time
of unprecedented growth and change in
Atlanta metropolitan Atlanta will grow
by fifty percent to eight million people
over the next couple of decades that
means the time is now to shape the
future not with a wish list wish lists
are a waste of time but what the plan
built on sound data and cutting-edge
technology at the city of Atlanta we are
executing our vision for the future
around the five core values that define
us when we're at our best equity
progress ambition access and nature the
plan is inspired by our civil rights
legacy and steeped in dr. Martin Luther
King Junior's philosophy of the Beloved
Community a society based on justice
equal opportunity and love of one's
fellow human beings and Atlanta we know
that the most strategic scenario for
growth includes everyone equity and
affordability or our biggest challenges
but technology and data offer the
potential for endless solutions
technology has become a real-time
present-day asset for cities like
Atlanta and everything from
transportation to public safety to
sustainability
and beyond it complements our employees
on the front lines and it helps
streamline operations for greater
efficiency it fosters economic growth
and provides more opportunities for our
residents our businesses and their
employees it will make us a more
resilient city by giving us greater
insight into energy used in solutions
for emission reduction in the end it
will help us ensure and build equity in
the city of Atlanta and that's a vital
point equity is the most common goal
that influences all our public
initiatives what it's what makes Atlanta
a livable and viable city for anybody
who wants to come there and build their
dreams our city design studio is a place
where residents can walk in off the
street and talk about the future of
Atlanta what do they want our city to
look like how do they want it to work
what do we develop what do we protect
how does it all connect with the input
of residents in urban professionals we
are building a vision for what
Atlantians want the city of Atlanta to
be in the coming generations the city
studio will collect our most creative
ideas
back them with strong policy that will
help us develop a realistic process for
moving forward our next steps will
include a mobility plan zoning ordinance
changes conservation efforts and a
housing strategy among other tools and
plans a great design for the future will
help Atlanta remain a global center for
business it will allow us to continue to
attract the best and brightest talent
and secure our status as a center for
culture and innovation it will also
prioritize inclusive growth and address
the challenges of equity so we can
ensure that our prosperity remains
accessible to everyone we know that
Atlanta is at its best when it's a city
for everyone I look forward to the
dialogue and I'm delighted and honored
to be here with this esteemed panel
thank you thank you thank you very much
we will go deeper on those issues about
affordability about building prosperity
accessible for everyone in in Atlanta in
the panel discussion but the last
speaker we we have is is pilar torres
from amazon you all know amazon and most
of you I guess use Amazon to buy things
but Villar will tell us another side of
Amazon which is the site of helping
smart cities to grow web services
technology data use of data so Pilar
please the floor is yours
muchas gracias when ozs had all those
bienvenidos a day Smart City Expo
my name is Pilar Torres I work at Amazon
Web Services and as Mateo said many of
you know Amazon and in fact we are
approaching a very busy time of the year
for Amazon because most of the online
shopping will take place between now and
Christmas this is our picnic time and I
hope you all are part of it somehow but
I'm part of a side of Amazon called Web
Services that was born almost 12 years
ago precisely for that fact that Amazon
NEADS were very very variable along the
year we had a very stable needs during
the year and then some peaks we're the
largest part of our demand and our
customer interactions took place and
from a technology perspective and from a
data management perspective this was a
huge challenge because you have to
dimension your infrastructure to the
peak and then you waste a lot of money
and resources during the year or if you
dimension your infrastructure for the
average then you're missing the key
moments they make or break of your of
your business so in that challenge
Amazon developed infrastructure as a
service so to be able to accommodate and
to scale automatically to the needs of
our business and once this service was
developed and working for Amazon we
decided was the time to offer it to the
world as a new business called Amazon
Web Services which is today used by
millions millions of companies of all
sizes across the world and the
advantages of using the cloud because
this is what we do we offer cloud
services on a paper use mode 0 from
commitment and pay-as-you-go fits very
well in the needs of cities because
cities are so so dynamic and they have
dynamic needs and we provide the
infrastructure to adapt to these dynamic
needs coming from different sources and
how we help cities all across the world
and many of the cities we work with our
present today and and I will be willing
to share what we do with them later on
in the session applying the most
cinematic technologies are in three
areas one to provide the core
technologies so you have data you have
to collect the data you have to compute
it you have to analyze it you have to
store it and you have to make smart
decisions based on it this is the basic
cloud infrastructure we provide but then
we develop advanced technologies that we
are also using in the Amazon world
and we have a lot of synergies there for
instance artificial intelligence Alexa
is used and offered as a service for
many customers and many cities are using
it now or IOT technologies which are
used to buy online we can also use them
in the cities machine learning deep
learning many many technologies and
thirdly the data because smart City is
all about the data at the service of
citizens to make smarter decisions to
make more informed decisions and to help
a having better lives thank you thank
you thank you Pilar and thank you all
five speakers we have about 29 minutes
for discussion and so keep using your
your smartphones to raise questions
someday I will receive the tablet to to
know those questions so please the
organization if they can they can bring
that tablet here if not send them a lot
of problem of imminence arena so just
taking what what what Bill has said that
we are in an economy of data and data
should be collect
should be distributed what John River
just told us open those data to to
citizens and should be used to the site
and since we have a mayor here I would
begin asking John River how in Valencia
he uses those data to the site and how
they use those data to help people so
how using data or como no Pallavas meant
Sahara's how you use data to take
decisions as as as mayor when a yo creo
que muchos respect those less commented
he a concrete Amenti dos tres el premio
her for example is la st on la st on del
agua nosotros tenemos todos los
fundadores digital atados en este caso
para nosotros el control de estos
Contador's es muy importante
maneuver por un tema que NOS interesa
todos en el momento de una profunda
Secchia
yes evitar las uvas que son fácilmente
detect a blaze cuando tenemos una
gestion de estos Contador's assassin
aplicación evidently he knows a
permitido por ejemplo Valencia reducir L
no menos de fuga 'he's important ahem
muy bajo el agua yo creo un paso
importante pero hay otro es aplicaciones
case Impossibles d que estamos en estos
momentos implement ando case concrete
Ament a Valencia muchas personas a
masked assassin tae Cinco años que
viven SOLAS y su control no es facil una
manera de controller que puede ver a un
problema es el detector en sus
Contador's del agua no Avedon ningún
consumo en una serie de horas y estamos
estamos concrete amend en estos momentos
plant a and o una serie de indica doors
que nos permiten exceed air como
sistemas de al ARMA a estas personas
mayor des des enticing go a knows
Segundo lamento en estos momentos
estamos en face de studio Valencia
estamos cami Ando las líneas de
autobús de la he met a concrete Ament a
yo Soto's tenemos
perfectamente identification las
entradas en cada una de las Paradas
pero no tenemos identificado Mo's logic
o las salinas de ESO se puede ver con
con grandes datos y estamos trabajando
concrete Ament a este tema para poder
Optimas r-las para las líneas de
autobús las parada de autobús hacen en
el Tercero que estamos poniendo marchan
estos momentos Yo no lo tengo me or Dana
door por que tiene que modernization
poquito es digamos una gestion concreted
a los datos de león tommy ento en el
cual se puede que determine hacer we do
question a problemas para invert ero say
PO detect arcade rose-red me co-tenant
Polhemus de TRO tipo yo se yo bro case
entrées ejemplos de como puedes pero I
sin duda mucho más ya me any petty
importante man tener la mayoría de los
datos null cm portion pero si la in
Mensa my area porque seguro que si por
mi cabeza pasado tres aplicaciones
Possible's por la cabeza días en dos
menos de valència pasaron muchas más y
mucho más importantes de las que yo
poda a máquina
fantastico muchisimas gracias so we do
so examples of technology being used to
help people as the water service hee hee
hee Joos mentioned and also he mentioned
on the use of data on transport humble
are I mentioned the other day when we
were talking that Amazon is taking care
of transport of London data and could
you share a little bit and that
experience yeah transfer for London is
the tool that most Londoners but also
BCT in London visitors used to plan
their trips so transfer from London is a
BBC website imagine they have 24 million
journey plans birthday & dicie's this is
a stable workload day-in day-out
but when for instance weather events
happen unexpectedly they use and the
access to the website is is gigantic
we detected Peaks up to 17,000
access per second in the case of
unexpected snowfalls so all citizens
trying to to reach out to the web to see
what's the best way to to get back home
so we provide the cloud infrastructure
for transfer from London to to run this
website so to accommodate these Peaks
off I would take beer chili unlimited
the workload instantaneously but also
collect and analyze these data and that
one one drinks resting thing I want to
highlight of transfer for London that
also Chicago is doing who also runs the
open air grid Chicago on AWS is they are
packaged in their services as
infrastructure and offering it to the
public as part of the Amazon Web
Services marketplace so developers as
much people in the city or in the world
can develop solutions that can
compliment and reach what the city is
doing and I think parts of the beauties
not only providing the infrastructure
service to the cloud it with a website
providing the cloud
enabling the ecosystem where all the
talent in the city and across the world
can bring more value to this city
solutions perfect thank you very much -
there's a question here for dr. Asha
about blockchain how do you is you how
are you using blockchain in this smart
city strategy you are hearing in in
Dubai yeah actually we just launched our
blockchain strategy end of 2016 we're in
the strategy is built in three pillars
government efficiency industry creation
and international leadership our target
is to have our government fully powered
by blockchain by 2020 where and all the
sufficient services government services
will be on top of blockchain so what we
believe is that today with the
blockchain we can reorganize our
operation and cities providing a much
secure a platform and that's what we are
doing it in Dubai alhamdulillah today we
we launched our platform where in all
our strategic partners government
entities start to pilot several use
cases such as Land Department who
launched their real estate blockchain
network just a few weeks ago and now all
their land registries happen on top of
blockchain also another example for
implementing blockchain is implementing
settlement a reconciliation between
backs a bank accounts on top of
blockchain and today all the government
entities the reconciliation of their
bank accounts has happened on top of
blockchain through our also accelerator
programs and Dubai blockchain challenge
we have made you buy into the testing
bed of blockchain technologies startups
across the world sorta for more than 30
countries are flying every day to Dubai
every week we have an event around
blockchain which made you buy the half
of this
new nascent technology we believe that
blockchain will be the new internet of
transactions that they call it that
government can utilize to improve their
services and become more efficient thank
you thank you very much max there are
some questions for for you around here
and also we've been told that you have
good examples to share with with with us
on things that you've done in Buenos
ideas things that you've done on smart
lighting traffic management could you
share a little bit on that yeah things
that people will be able to see in your
stand as well yeah absolutely
so first of all a lot of the things that
we do and I think Phil are mentioned as
well is we work with partners we work
with the local city ecosystem and the
startups we enable that ecosystem
because that is one of the objectives of
the city leaders that that we work with
to enable and grow the knowledge locally
in Buenos Aires for instance we work
with Philips on the smart lighting thing
we work with local partners on storm
drain management and that was actually a
big impact life-saving impact they
implemented sensors on over 30,000 storm
drains and if you've been to Buenos
Aires it's close to Rio de la Plata so
when it rains there's many areas that
are at risk of flooding by monitoring
the risk of certain storm drain being
clogged by waste and debris the city
could make practical decision like
ending waste collection for a couple of
days to avoid that waste would go into
the storm drains alert certain neighbors
of the city to avoid damage
and it was pretty dramatic from one year
to the next it was a couple of dozen
lives that were saved because they could
prevent the flooding in terms of traffic
we've worked with cities like Nanjing we
have examples that are both in terms of
what we call our city digital boardroom
cities and city leaders are able to see
traffic patterns but most importantly
use the insights from all of that data
to make decisions like applying or
thinking applying dynamic fares for
taxis in certain areas of the cities
based on a traffic or dynamic fares to
public transport while keeping equality
and inclusion in mind
so those are some of the examples you
know the EPI to share more if there are
more questions thank you thank you max I
think this these illustrates the beauty
of the collaboration and the and the
richness of the ecosystem because the
solution that you're mentioning they
Philips City touch the infrastructure is
AWS it runs on AWS cloud and it's
implemented in more than 600 cities
worldwide you mentioned we know site is
Los Angeles the world so this is a
perfect example were bringing different
components you haven't ready to deploy a
solution which is already proved you'll
are following on since you take you took
the world there's always a question and
it's somewhere also in this tablet but
but also always and those underst desert
city has to build his own infrastructure
on smart cities or there's an
opportunity to build global
infrastructure which is I know your
answer but could you share why it's
important to share those platforms
instead of building your own platform
yeah
well as I as I mentioned earlier there
is a factor of speed and agility that it
is very important because speed and
agility
allow you to
minimize the risk minimize the cost and
innovation the successful innovation
needs to be cheap if you have to be the
huge infrastructure upfront to prove or
to implement a new project that you
don't know how it will work if it fails
then you have a big burden that it is
very very difficult to overcome so we
believe that having zero cost upfront
the agility and ability to deploy
infrastructure as you need and pay for
only what you're using is a huge help
and a huge enabler of innovation so this
is this is number one secondly we see
the scale because what we're talking is
about data we're talking data coming
from sensors huge amount of data we are
talking data coming from our internal
systems we are talking data coming from
from us people are more and more
becoming human sensors in ourselves
providing data to the city's open data
social so this is such a scale that you
also have to look at the efficiencies
and the economies and the security as
well so all these factors combined are
present on cloud and this is the
infrastructure we believe sells best the
needs of agility speed pace of
innovation scalability cost of ownership
all also being greener there are studies
that say that a cloud infrastructure is
88% more efficient from an energy
perspective than on-prem data centers
90% more reliable there are many many
statistics and data after all the
millions of customers that are running
on cloud nowadays so glad to share with
you more details as we present later on
the booth thank you thank you pillar
tendons from
and you you come from a city which you
mentioned is a successful city yes big
Airport and Olympic city big
multinationals based there and but
success in cities as John also knows and
Barcelona knows creates externalities on
affordability on inequality our on those
kind of things and you mentioned that
you as a strategy are focused on
equality and as are focused on
affordability could you tell us how data
helped on this strategy how building an
affordable city on housing contracts
port on how to build a more equal City
how are you facing those those
challenges in Atlanta well we find that
when you have a lot of success it's it's
wonderful on one side but it can also be
detrimental on the other side especially
with the residents who've lived there
for many years and who have basically
paved the way for the success that
Atlanta has been experiencing since the
Olympics we have found and we have
attracted lots of headquarters Atlanta
has one of the highest number of fortune
500 companies in our country and while
we are very excited about that as well
as the success of our airport we do find
that those residents are having a
challenge keeping up with the pace
financially economically as well as with
transportation we have a commission
called the Atlanta Regional Commission
which provides data to the city of
Atlanta in terms of where those pockets
of people are and traditionally we know
where where those people lie in terms of
those people who are able to afford as
well as those people who are unable to
afford the successes and what's
happening with the city of Atlanta
they generally lie below our interstate
which pretty much dissects the top
portion of the city versus the bottom
portion of our city and the bottom
portion of our city typically has less
of an opportunity than the top portion
of our city so we look at the data
the Atlanta Regional Commission presents
to us and see where we can supplement
those resources for those economic
neighborhoods that are being challenged
but we also look at it not just in terms
of the financial component but also
transportation and how we can plan
smartly with connecting people with
transportation with jobs we also find
that there's a disconnect between jobs
in between those people who are in those
areas below what we call intersect and
enter interstate 20 which again dissects
the city of Atlanta from the north north
portion to the southern portion just
last year the city of Atlanta voters
voted to expand our transit system it's
a two point six billion dollar
transportation expansion of our Martyr
service which will allow and connect so
our issue is also about equity but it's
also about transportation connectivity
and this will allow us to connect people
with the jobs so that the disparity
economically can be bridged between
those two sectors okay thank you thank
you very much so we have many many
questions here I'm trying to mix them up
the most voted question with 20 votes I
think that should be answered by one
River that's saying with so many
competing priorities that a city may
have what should be city's first
priority towards being a smart city
college lab principal contentious period
a days cholesteral to and to measure the
alcalde
college la la principal in el sentido
the smart cities buena vista previa and
sealer in 10 Torino in
vamos a ver yo creo que su muchas la
primera still low fundamental son las
personas yo creo que que los elementos
que define a las personas por ESO
nosotros estamos preston Doel máximo de
attention a todos aquí los elementos
que de alguna manera pueden mejorar la
calidad de vida la calidad de los
servicios que effect on directamente a
las personas y los servicios sociales el
segundo lamento yo Rakim especial
Segundo lamento para nosotros el tema de
la Movida NOS parece muy importante por
star por una Moneda sustainable even in
Girona see de donde el único do say de
el coche bravados pasado un nuevo en el
cual en la ciudad a post ahmo's una
Moneda Austin is late amanada mythically
de el transporte público como Elemento
no Chico en este momento todas las
aplicaciones que estamos de sorondo
cualquier persona en su teléfono móvil
puede saber que que busca hair quanto
quanto tarde el autobús que bicicleta
poder donde la bodega
etc tetra cuáles son tambien Cindy's
Okocha privado en la situación in k
momento estar a son a satyr Odyssey
Terra Nostra des elementos fundamentals
por lo tanto insist en dough el tema de
todas las aplicaciones Annabelle de
servicio sociales altima de la Movida
para nosotros ariane dos de los
alimentos priori terrorism brado masked
a mysterious muchas gracias
des a question I guess for for erisa
also got 20 votes and was promoted by
Jorge and they say how to involve people
in smart Serie A citizens users or
creators of a smart Siri can you deliver
happiness to series to series answer yes
smart cities and focused on people it's
become very successfully stories today
what we should the promised as smart
city leaders is to provide those
efficient seamless safe and impactful
and happy experience for every resident
or visitor to our cities for example in
Dubai we have a city experience lamp
where people are invited to do
sign with us all these experiences
whether be an entrepreneur or a mother
or even a city a planner to give them
these tools whether we again sound box
around sand books around the block chain
or to give them some sensors implemented
around their areas and start collecting
data and teach them how to value the
data and what to do with these data's to
give them tools around analyzing this
data and populated populating them in
dashboards so when it's come to
happiness again also an Dubai we have we
launched what we call the happiness
agenda which sit on top of our small
city strategy we need to discover our
people happiness and once we discover
their needs because today my happiness
is different than your happiness Mathieu
on from the happiness of the people in
Atlanta so once we discover our people
needs and then we go back and sit and
change all our all our policies and
systems and we don't talk about
technology but it's about how how can we
really change our behavior toward
fulfilling these needs of our people and
then educate people that happiness is
attainable once they understand their
needs and then at that asked or to
finish this ecosystem to measure the
happiness today in Dubai we have more
than 1,000 touch point in our city to
imagine people happiness where and
people can say how was how how were
their experiences in our city thank you
thank you and there's a question direct
to max from Murray that got three votes
she asks if future cities are discussed
at technology conferences how can people
outside technology be part of the
discussion that is a it is a very
important question
and the answer is smart cities are
enabled by technology but they're not
about technology right smart cities
about using the technology in a smart
way to make life easier for the season
to access services to enable the mayor
or the city manager to make better
decisions you have a limited budget in
many cases where do you put your
priorities and by looking at the data
you can do a better job and by
leveraging the capabilities of
technology companies of local academic
institutions of a lot of smart people in
the government it is possible to
leverage technology that way then if we
talk about inclusion in borrow broader
terms technology has made a lot of
progress I work for a technology company
that's been there 40 years and we add a
reputation for not being super user
friendly to begin with but we have
invested a lot to make that interface
much better and we have applied that to
mobile apps to websites and and so forth
and so on
okay thank you we still have about five
minutes if anyone instead of using this
tool wants to raise a question please
stand up meanwhile I will be keeping and
them answering some of the questions you
have is there anyone willing to show his
face her face not just that someone
there please say your name and where you
come from and be brief doesn't work yes
yes okay I'm Luis Rodriguez I'm coming
from France and the question was for the
mayor for John Sequoia Thielen is
pioneer a join is to Avenal aplicación
up valencia mientras Alamos es lo bueno
de la tecnología case interact Eva a me
del cuenta de que es una forma de pasar
Ella
Afiya multiple application sk detrás de
diferentes componentes provisos muchos
de ellos la pregunta es usted tiene una
visión clara de qual tiene que ser el
servicio capital a municipal de trenton
antes de pasar actors alternate Evo's
mess especially Stas SS la primera
pregunta a la segunda equality
presupuesto global de la aplicación
valencia con telefónica mpa Gunda no me
acuerdo por lo tanto no se lo puedo
decir en este momento yo tengo aquí
concrete Ament en el sistema para poder
sell o decir la primera ce que lo
tenemos Claro nosotros queremos facility
r el máximo de datos
in abierto a toda la ciudad Aniyah come
on say abre visto en aplicación
hypericin nagging cantidad de datos y
okay son los datos más importantes a
los que se pueden friend our cualquiera
que viven Valencia que estén Valencia
Shakira displace our say por la ciudad y
broke a son datos de interaction de
multiples de multiples end amen dos y
comentar luna preoccupation no say no
sabemos que in Valencia muchas personas
con en una prisa digital de esto no
successively caso no spray Guba que
tenemos que llegar a a veces a Travis de
Contador ace de agua travis otro system
s totalmente en directors pero para
nosotros es muy importante que la amends
Amaya ria de los datos sein effects
accessible estaba tilted vania y una
manera evident Amenti tambien arrow son
pero la empresa y permit a
Jana Moses / en algunas pennies en este
sentido muy creativa permit a que muchas
personas piensa en la parte de Sol datos
en de cerrar aplicaciones mess mess
maternal moreno vadas matt intelligente
z-- y que indefinite even podemos a
banter any last question there yes my
name is Rodrigo I'm coming from Brazil
we are from guardo's where lose is the
largest non capital city in South
America with 1.5 million people we're
starting all our projects for a smart
city with the illumination PPP what we
call which is a public and
private partnership it's an investment
around 500 million hey ice which is
something about 150 million euros and
this is the way we understood it would
be good for us to start all the project
for a smart city so and then from there
we're going for mobility we're going for
security and so on
so my question go for all of you even
from the public sector and also the
private what's the best way to to
empower citizens through a smart city
project without having money
so let me since we don't have much time
I will ask this question to be answered
by Pilar well definitely each city is is
an unique case and each city has
different needs and different
circumstances different environment but
what we see across the world is the most
successful smart city initiatives start
by what we mentioned already which is
the people and having a very clear
understanding on what are the most
important priorities for that specific
city and then and this helps me also
build the my wrap-up message here is to
start with proven best practices so it's
much cheaper to start with solutions
that are already off the shelf and are
already working and there are multiple
references and have already been proved
a start trying them in a zero upfront
investment and that then starts growing
from there then building a big big
project with an uncertain outcome so
that would be my recommendation start
with your day unique key priorities for
your city and start with proven
solutions and very very specific areas
thank you thank you very much and I'm
gonna fight in our city thank you thank
you thank you
the question was was was great to finish
this session I don't know if everyone
agrees with what tiller said one CEO
Cadia CEO Korea commenter respecto
concrete cement alt Madara un grado
Valencia es una capital K assume no
Sonia Sara precinct Amenti de las
Grande's campiones del mundo en kendama
nación lo minica yeh Mo's anisia un
proceso muy Serio de reducción de esta
kendama nación you know de los
alimentos en donde tenemos la plata
forma valencia intelligente s
precisamente esto en este momento para
empezar porque no Mo's terminado estamos
ya monetary Sandow en tiempo real el
estado de los padres electric owes el
estado de las líneas alimentation no
sear mentor otras cosas para prevenir
possible robos name material de cobre
metal semi precioso estos momentos el
estado de ferrol a luminary azita me n
el consume you de Activa reactive ax en
todas son elementos que yo creo que NOS
Astana you don dough yo Oh stammers no
Tondo en Elder sin so significative o de
los Costas delegate one ting here matee
o without a leadership and without a
proper collaboration between all the
city
stakeholder there wouldn't be any smart
city so these are the main fundamental
elements for any smart cities fantastic
closing for this session we are monitor
eyes a second-by-second we are one
minute and a half out of the of the time
so let's let's close the session here
let's give a big applause to the
speakers
[Applause]

