Title: Cities for People: How to Implement the New Urban Agenda
Ê
Subject: Multilevel Governance

* Governance

Abstract: 

The New Urban Agenda was formally adopted by national governments at Habitat III, on October 2016. The action-oriented document represents a shared vision for a better and more sustainable future - one in which all people have equal rights and access to the benefits and opportunities cities can offer. What are the mechanisms established to monitor its progress? What are the key priorities to be set out in the post Quito scenario? World Urban Forum 9: What are the platforms to engage with the process of implementation?

Speakers: 

Christopher Swope
Paulius Kulikauskas
Wild Ndipo James

Conference: 
hello thank you welcome to the session
on implementing the new urban agenda my
name is Christopher Swope I'm the
managing editor of city scope it's a new
service that covers urban innovation and
cities around the world we also
extensively covered the United Nations
habitat three conference on the future
of cities last year and we've been
following the aftermath of that quite
closely habitat 3 was held in Quito
Ecuador last year last October about one
year ago and the habitat conferences are
quite interesting because they're the
one time every 20 years that countries
get together to talk about their cities
and today we're gonna be talking about
the outcome of habitat 3 which is
something called the new urban agenda
the new urban agenda is a non-binding
agreement that nearly 170 countries
agreed to and it sets a vision for how
all the players who influence the future
of cities from national governments to
local governments to regional
governments the international
development funders the UN program civil
society
it sets a vision for how all these
players can be rowing the boat in the
same direction when it comes to the
future of cities I'll let our panelists
tell you more about the new urban agenda
but to me what's most interesting is
perhaps a historical context because at
previous habitat conferences
twenty and forty years ago the subtext
was that cities are a problem to be
avoided they're dirty messy places
filled with poverty and crime and so
this thinking tended to marginalize city
in cities in the global dialogue and in
the ways that many countries thought
about urbanization by contrast the new
urban agenda says the opposite it says
that cities can be places of prosperity
and good quality of life for their
citizens but only if we do some good
urban planning and build cities the
right way so the global community has
moved to a different mindset from seeing
cities as the problem to seeing them as
a solution
so what comes next that's the question
we're gonna be asking today and we've
got a great panel of experts to help us
answer it first on my right we have from
un-habitat
we have mr. paulius kulakowski paulius
represents you in habitat in europe from
us office in brussels and second for an
on the ground perspective we have from
the city of Blantyre Malawi which is the
industrial and commercial capital of the
country
the mayor mr. Wilde and dopo we're gonna
be looking to you all for for your input
as well so please do ask questions we've
got microphones up here in the front and
of course please use the the ask and
vote app feature on the smart cities app
you can ask a question there and or vote
up other people's questions and I'll be
looking at that as well as to the
microphones for your input so with that
we will start with paulius thank you
very much for inviting us to attend this
session I would try to place things in
the context a little bit because often
people think about this new urban agenda
as something isolated so let me give a
bit of the background to it as
Christopher mentioned already have we 20
years we have the conference and housing
and sustainable Urban Development at the
United Nations and so we had one in
Quito Ecuador last year however this is
not a one-off event when the General
Assembly of the United Nations decided
to hold this conference there was a
intention to build on many of the
frameworks that have been developed by
the United Nations in history few of you
would probably remember the
sumit in stockholm in 72 but many of you
would know Rhea the sustainable
development summit Johannesburg ten
years later in 2002 and the Millennium
Development Goals which were agreed by
the Member States and as also mentioned
by by Christopher and via +20 and there
was this process twenty years ago we had
habitat - in Istanbul and then Istanbul
plus five in 2001 so there is a long
history of developing the food but also
in the current day the habitat 3 and the
new urban agenda doesn't exist on its
own because you are all aware that we
have 2030 agenda which is expressed in
17 sustainable development goals and
there are also other frameworks which
most of you know and this is the Sendai
framework Annan impose disaster there is
a financing for development known as
addis ababa action and also the famous
Paris agreement on climate change so
implementing the new urban agenda
doesn't exist only on the basis of 175
paragraphs of the new urban agenda if we
look at the sustainable development
goals which also have different targets
and we try to say how much of this
relates to the urban development we
could look at the linkages between
different targets and you will see that
there are many such linkages I will not
go into detail but based on this we
should also look at the urban dimension
of agenda 2030 and the sustainable
development goals the the one simple
thing is when when the 2030 agenda has
been adopted by the Member States slowly
the understanding came n that up to 70%
of action to be taken on the ground will
have to be done that by the national
government but by the sub-national
entities such as regions and cities so
we should also say the new urban agenda
as an implementing mechanism for
sustainable development goals more than
anything else I've invented this good
bad the good the bad and the ugly trying
to illustrate the outcome that now we
have to deal with I've done with the
good part saying that ok new urban
agenda don't be afraid it's not an
isolated framework it is not a new layer
of bureaucracy because in many countries
the national governments and the cities
say oh no yet another set of indicators
yet another system of reporting and
we'll have to report and report why do
we have to do that now this is not the
case have already mentioned that the
role of the local governments is
paramount there is also a political side
to it because 20 years ago when
inhabited to the importance of the role
of local governments has first started
to penetrate the multilateral
intergovernmental mechanism you will see
that local governments and cities were
seen as a part of the non-governmental
civil society now the understanding has
finally come that a local government is
still a government is not the same as a
voluntary Association because a mayor is
still an elected governor and and and
not a voluntarily appointed one so the
right 70 percent were more of action
will have to be taken by the local
please but that is not that simple
because in some of the countries we now
see especially in the Western world okay
the mayors will take care of it very
good let's give it to the mayors they
will do it
not really it is the collaboration of
all levels of governance that is
required to achieve this goal
so we promote had the United Nations
national urban policies that sets the
frameworks for cooperation of all these
levels of governance and if we want to
look a little bit in the history you
would recall when we started speaking
about integrated urban development first
it was about the seams and the wear
silos and infrastructure separately
housing separately social services
separately public spaces separately a
heart how can we integrate all these
themes then the issue of multiple
sectors came into the picture which was
largely under the heading of
participation saying guess that there is
there are civil servants that are
politicians but there is also civil
society that is also private sector we
have to work together on this then the
next layer of complexity has been
introduced in terms of multiple
territorial scopes necessarily
municipalities but there are also
regions that are also metropolitan areas
there are city regions and so we have to
deal with all these multiple scopes and
lately this issue of the multi-level
governance has added yet another
framework of complexity so working
together does not only mean different
sectors does not only mean different
themes to accomplish and to attain the
sustainable development goals there is
quite a huge complexity that will have
to be tackled
but the ugly part is not the isn't that
the complexity the ugly part is that we
are often asked about okay how will the
implementation of the agenda 2030 and
the new urban agenda going to be
financed and the response as well that
there is no new money in the world so
the policies will have to be readjusted
institutions will have to be realigned
private sector will have to be drawn in
into more coordinated action and we will
see more and more of what in the
language of financial institutions is
called blending if we have seen a lot of
technical cooperation for the sake of
its own more and more their financing
institutions the dulness are seeing it
as a part of a long process which starts
from policy development and must end
with actual investment on the ground so
it will be much more difficult
within the nearest future to find
funding for separate technical
cooperation which is not related to
actual action on the ground I think this
is good when we were discussing the
session I was asked why does new urban
agenda matter and I would very quickly
want to run through this because
prevailing model of urbanization does
not satisfy anyone anymore and there is
this global tendency which brings the
uniformity of the city extensions and
the new towns being built and even the
regeneration plants and the resembles
Peru
and urban planning has been reduced to
nothing I mean I don't want to spend a
lot of time showing you the data but if
you look for example at the SPRO you
would say that with the rather little
growth of population cities take up and
more and more of valuable resource such
as the land
and it's difficult to believe but when
you look at the last 120 years that
cities are less and less plant they just
happen partly as informal settlements
but partly also as legally enabled
structures that do not build on urban
planning look at how the access to
streets which are more than 18 meters
width has fallen down over time and also
when you look at the way streets are
laid out in the cities that are less and
less for wise intersections which are
the most efficient we know where this
comes from I don't want to blame any
particular name but it's easy to see the
source of modernist planning but you
will see a lot of this in the world I'll
show you quickly a couple of pictures so
you would you will say that it is not
happening as the great vision showed 20
years 120 years ago how are we going to
implement the new urban agenda it is
difficult to see how different cities
and all the continents are going to do
that we had the United Nations and UN
habit that we have suggested a simple
framework of action based on five
pillars drawing on the new urban agenda
I've already mentioned national urban
policies as an overarching framework
enabling the multi-level governance to
deal with the sustainable urbanization
we need rules and regulations we need to
bring back urban planning and design we
need to consider various ways of
financing urbanization and also of
course be sure that all these frameworks
reach the local implementation
what's next in the United Nations we
have the high-level political forum that
each year looks at a set of sustainable
development goals this year there was a
set of goals looking at eradicating
poverty and promoting prosperity in in
the changing world next year we have a
set of goals but also goal number 11
will be prominently featuring in
transformation towards the sustainable
and resilient societies and that is
where so many countries are doing the
voluntary national reviews and reporting
on how the implementation is going Ghana
mean is just a list of some European
countries but you could see that these
voluntary reviews are quite massive as
well how are we going to monitor the
implementation of the agenda of course
as I said before there is a system in
the United Nations statistical
Commission on monitoring the
implementation of sustainable
development goals and that will be the
official system in doing that we are
also working at UN habitat with many
cities around the world on so-called
city prosperity initiative which
measures different aspects of urban
development and you are welcome to look
on the website and I'm quite sure that
many cities where you live are already
participating in this initiative every
two years we also organize so-called
world Urban Forum and the ninth session
of the world urban forum will take place
next year in February 7th to 13th in
Kuala Lumpur in Malaysia were typically
I'd say about 20,000 people from all
over the world come and share their
experiences on the implementation you
are all welcome to come also there and
listen to these marvelous stories of
successes and sometimes failures of
implementing the sustainable development
goals agenda 23rd
but also the new urban agenda I will
stop here if you are interested more in
the new urban agenda please have a look
at the website which is frequently
updated and the new information can also
be found there thank you very much thank
you paulius now we're gonna hear from
mayor and depot
thank you
I hope the explanation has been called
so clear on the new urban agenda blunter
city are the smallest city in Malawi in
the southern part of Africa we had to
understand the concept so fast in such a
way that the implementation has already
been on the ground without taking much
of your time I think just a group of
what we're blunter is that's in Africa
and the southern part of Oh
mallamma as a country that is the city
Blantyre as you can see there
the main issue is how are implementing
this we have a lot of projects to the
link to the urban agenda to show that we
are able to understand what is being
said or where we are moving you took
over the infrastructure projects we have
embarked on projects in accordance to or
rather in regards to the new urban
agenda like once at one of roads a
street right for habitation of school
project the blocks that were depleted oh
clinics or rather hospitals hotels bakas
bus terminals and many more we also
embarked on a sewage project whereby the
sword which we had was constructed in
1960s when the operation was not as as
it is now so we had you been using that
or rather it wasn't enough for the
growth of the population with the
urbanization that is in Malawi growing
in the end Atlanta people seeking for
greener pastures we also have impact on
the sanitation projects like cassava of
toilet
and the previous also we didn't have the
proper addressing system whereby we
could not when you are in Blantyre maybe
you could had a trace waiver reiative is
or rather your friend is but meanwhile
we've been back on the project whereby
now we've done proper addressing we also
have done the city clocks and we are we
have done the rehab ditional de pques
we have reviewed the boroughs
and we have the new new land bill how do
we get the funds
in most cases we have double transfers
understanding how the municipal Zweig
the government to so transfer some cash
some funds to the municipal so that the
new urban agenda should be more
effective as the municipal also generate
local funds through licenses market fees
and many more and we have donor funded
projects like the RO DF which is funded
by the World Bank in some cases also we
have the public-private partnership
whereby we partner with the private
sector and embark on also some projects
that will improve de la
we also thought like that day when we
were embarking on projects whatever we'd
talk of the city the community has to be
taken on board so by engaging the
community we've seen that whatever we do
whether it is the project or whatever it
is always safe gladly jealously because
they own it we are also the you know
sector engagement like in the city
most of the corporates take up
initiatives maybe they made the mimetic
one of the roundabouts and beautified in
the process they advertise one on the
same but in the situation we find that
the urban becomes improved time and
again we also previous Blanca city that
we have sister city relationships like
ANOVA who also have some city in Japan
and no focus or in the Nebraska in USA
as you look there you see that this is
the public toilet as we thought of
Blantyre that should be a clean City a
smart city we also thought that they
cannot be a smart city if there's no
toilets like this so these projects are
part of the projects that are taking
place and they were constructed about
100 of these stories in the bluntest
city whereby if we are enforcing the law
that there must not be open defecation
then we are meaning it because the
somewhere people can live themselves but
it would mean it would be meaningless if
we could enforce the law when there is
no toilet these are some of the roads
that has been improved from Earth laws
to us fact we've done this through
government transfers and some local
revenue as already alluded to we thought
it is very important that the community
has to be taken on board has already
alluded that whenever they project by
this then you involved opposed the
community the owners was the motor for
bluntest city is taken back to the city
back to the people so this is the way we
are taking the city back to them by
making them on whatever we are doing in
such a way it has been proven to be so
super dirty everybody is happy whenever
there is a project whether we are
constructing a bridge you find that
there is nothing like vandalism
whatsoever because this is what people
had wanted so the municipal proved to be
effective and the government is a parity
and implementation whatever the source
is channeled to the local councils are
taken care of
we have a problem of parking in Blantyre
whereby for you to get a button place
becomes a bit bit difficult with a lot
of vehicles then we've embarked on a
project that we are constructing the car
pockets and this is done and PPP
arrangement and it has proved to be more
effective in Blantyre and also e to
other cities like the wrong way and
Zumba this arrangement before we had
impact on this that was a problem a
problem that maybe the government
transfers could not be enough
the was I am privileged to be also the
president for the mile or Government
Association whereby the 35 councils in
Malawi how to benefit from the same
central government so by rubbing this
see TV arrangement it has proved to be
so effective
we've also impact on the project whereby
we are constructing bus terminals
international whereby this also is
trying to avoid congestion which was in
the city whereby maybe the buses or
small buses could not have enough places
or other terminals where you could use
as a temple for we are in Malawi have
small buses and the bigger buses there
could not be a difference on where we
wear and where the other bath by the
term this terminal who is congestion in
the city and also improve the out-group
of the city
as the read they said that we embarked
on the fiscal addressing this also is
already on the ground and meanwhile a
greater part of it has been done whereby
one would be able to trace where to send
the mail or rather whatever is supposed
to be communicated to we also have the
project whereby were putting city crops
in the city as part of beautification
but also as part of reminding the people
about the time management as well
this is some person I say alluded to
with benefit a lot from sister city
relationships some of these vehicles
were related by the by Japan government
to Malawi and Blanton particular just
because the way we've been handling
their operations they were satisfied and
he thought of assisting us and this has
been hasty whatever is there like a
garbage collection to the dumping site
and putting leaving the city as clean
some development to issues like request
blocks otherwise develop dated some of
them were blown off by maybe we wind
have been repaired using the error DF
funds that is from the World Bank this
wind also has assisted a lot always
assisting all these are trying to bring
together and make Blantyre
a livable city
we also improved the packs most of the
packs are now up to standard through the
PV arrangement as the municipal who
could not do it our on our own
during the defense but when we came to
be the arrangement we've seen that most
of the open spaces are being used and
utilized as he packs the conclusion
ladies and gentlemen in Blanton city
linkage of urban projects to
implementation of new urban agenda goes
hand in hand with other international
negotiations and agreements such as SDGs
therefore the new urban agenda can only
succeed if it is linked with other
international negotiations and
agreements such as sdgays financing for
dormant ffd United Nations Framework
Convention on Climate Change and cop21
and many more this is the a new methods
and effective organization
[Applause]
Thank You mayor we're gonna plenty of
time for questions so start thinking
about questions we've got microphones
it's just one microphone on this side
over here and of course use the the
smart cities app the ask and vote
feature there if you'd like to to type
in a question but I'm gonna get started
and and you know I guess for me it's
it's where do you start right so this
big framework linked with all these
other global frameworks like the SDGs
the the Paris climate agreement seems
like there's work that has to happen at
the national level and also lots of work
to happen at the local level so I'd like
to ask each of you what would you like
to see happen at the national level in
in your country Malawi and and and
probably just kind of generally what
needs to happen the national level and
then what net used to happen to local
level we start with you mayor
national action you'd like to see and lo
you spoke about some of the local
actions but but what what needs to
happen where do we start
absolutely what is it to happen is the
team the national government has to
trust the local municipal local councils
because all the vote means has to happen
to at local it is the local councils or
municipal that that stay with the people
with the local masses so when there's a
trust from the local government the
central government to the ROC government
you find that a lot of sectors who I
devote today to that to the local
government whereby now implementation of
whatever are to be done with the
projects would be easier and also I
think we'll the transfers have to be
adjusted that will transfer a lot to the
local those are the ones that that stay
with they the local mass of the rural
masses and the local people that are
supposed to be given infrastructure for
example you talk of in happening most of
the urban is cities like Blanton because
the result of an urbanization you have a
lot of slum cetera means we need to
equate those lumps we cannot say that
which we need to we wish to remove them
from wherever they are this to bring
scales we need to upgrade how do we
operate the central tower had to come in
have resistance so that we have great
slams then we met away with the boots it
is yes thing part pious well I mean I'm
not a mare but we do at un-habitat
observe through our fieldwork quite a
lot of what is happening on the ground
and you might as well say this could all
have happened without the new urban
agenda of without habitat agenda 20
years ago but we we have found that
these international frameworks have also
act as educational frameworks too many
national governments because the
government in any given country when it
is a part of negotiations in a
multilateral framework they start
understand the things and and
understanding things differently so when
we speak of government transfers that
that may Wilde mentioned it is not only
the issue of transfer but it's how much
of the of the taxation revenue is
implemented and collected at the city
level we might think that is a problem
of other parts of the world but I was in
the meeting here in Barcelona on Monday
where someone complains they take Spain
only 20% is implemented by
municipalities but in Denmark that is 60
percent of gold taxation volume that is
implemented and decided upon by
municipalities so different countries
different continents different systems
but certainly this huge long quest for
making the local governments not only
administratively responsible but also
financially enabled is we can see
succeeding much more needs to be done
but these are examples as Blantyre are
very encouraging to all of us because
low-key I mean they are using the whole
spectrum they're using the government
transfers they're using their own
revenue they are working with the
private sector and I think the
is the way to go so yeah back in
Blantyre oh we also launched the service
chatter but we wanted to bring the
residence to trust what we are doing so
normally we have that service chat aware
by the rate is hardly but they are free
to come to the console and find out what
is it what is happening at the console
and also we launched this participatory
budgeting whenever we are doing every
budgeting we call everybody we call them
one bought into the whole ask them this
is what we are proposed for the how to
look at it and most cases when they
found are not enough the corporate world
order than some residence they come to
our is no this is a good project let's
do like the like the sewage we are
puttin now we are trying to be habitat
also most half of it has been done now
the government could not assist they can
so revenue are not enough but now there
is this we are taking them on port they
are able to understand what we are doing
so we are moving forward like that so
should I understand what you said to say
that you have the responsibility at the
local level but not necessarily the the
funding streams coming from from the
national government and and and and do
you have do you have the ability to
raise those local funds that the
polyesters was talking about yeah most
of the times I would say that most of
the operations are done by the locally
generated revenue because we only get
five percent from the central government
and the first present is also shared
among 35 councils in Malawi so you see
that the each and every council gets
only is a small so we need to find ways
of enhancing our every correction that's
what we are doing now we make sure that
as the council now how do we enhance how
do we collect revenue so that is the way
we are now able to do some operations
using our local regulation and where
does that search for local revenues take
you sorry
well what are some sources of local
revenues that you will be looking to we
have markets for example we have
business licenses that we collect and
they will call the district parking you
know what's important means yeah so we
have all those things those are some
means that to collect driving and also
not only that we train how would they
can prevent fire mm-hmm we have that for
that fire department that the trains
companies and waiver in that regard or
we collect a lot of Raving destination
issue a few
yes yes if I could shoot back up to the
national level again probably as you
mentioned national urban policies and
there's a big discussion going on about
national urban policies globally coming
out of habitat three could you just
speak a little bit more about what is a
national urban policy and why would the
country want to have one I think we can
share these mm-hmm well a national urban
policy may mean very different things in
different countries we have a specific
program together with OECD and the
cities alliance nowadays we are trying
to promote this and offer different
government's opportunities to discuss
this it does not necessarily have to be
one single document but what we have
observed and what new urban agenda has
entrenched as an international
understanding that it is beneficial for
sustainable Urban Development in in any
country to have a kind of a framework
which is guiding the government but also
the relations of the government and the
local government and other actors on how
they see their the urban system in any
country developing it is not only a
question of sharing revenues but as you
all understand many of you better than I
do is that cities in any country do not
exist on their own this is the whole
urban system the cities have roles we
speak a lot about smart specialization
so there has to be a framework in which
way this framework is implemented
depends on many different things depends
on the way the public administration is
organized the way the politics in the
country happens did it also takes into
account not only the spatial aspects and
that's why we speak about these three
very important dimensions which one is
the way the government and a city
regulates Urban Development
it speaks about the spatial aspects also
on the national level and it speaks
about how the financing is arranged in
the complimentary why that is why why we
think it is important to have it on the
national level however it is expressed I
don't know I mean we could last we could
talk about this forever but I mean let's
let's go on well but but it's very
important to to the debate because it's
it's how the national government sort of
sets the rules of the game as dr. close
said earlier is is there a good example
that you could point to I we were
talking before you mentioned Poland
there's one place that decentralized
power and some years ago as as one
example it may be that or another
country that you would point to as an
example of a country that sort of set
the national rules in a way that worked
for cities okay well one thing that you
have heard many times talking about
decentralization we have found out that
this is not necessarily a good term for
two reasons
central governments and many countries
do not like giving the power away so
when you start speaking about
decentralization while you are in a sort
of tricky tricky field of discussion but
there is a second thing in in many
countries in in which are in transition
which are still developing it is a
question of resources some countries
only have a number of qualified people
and the research resources to enable
them to do the work that if you spread
all these human resources and and
financial resources very thin trying to
send say an urban planner to every small
town you will not be able to sustain the
system so that is a given take situation
but the other thing is that
sometimes the government's realized
saying that devolving responsibilities
is a good thing politically and we have
talked about this before as a result of
all this movement to give role to the
cities and urban development globally
and to have them at the negotiations
table well they were intergovernmental
frameworks are being discussed some
countries say all very well I mean
that's the mayor who's gonna solve it
but does the mayor have the resources so
speaking about these big conferences
every 20 years I can give you example of
Poland 96 you can imagine the Eastern
Bloc just assume the system collapsed
countries are in transition we had quite
many presidents and prime ministers in
Istanbul in 96 but quite prominently
there was a President of Poland of that
time Alexandra was Nevsky if I'm not
mistaken who made the very inspiring
speech about the importance of urban
development internationally but also in
transition and changing the system and
he was committed to that and Poland
today is a very good example of the
country that understood the importance
of decentralization not only in
administrative terms but also giving the
financial powers and instruments to the
sub-national governments so I would like
to see more of this also in the post
2030 agenda implementation but we had
other countries I think will have what I
recall personally from Quito there was a
president of Cameroon who is also now
trying to change the way of the of
urbanization is happening in his country
so you might say that new urban agenda
or sustainable development goals is
something at a very high international
real which doesn't really come close to
the grass
but I think that they help also educate
or interest some of high-level
politicians in the principles that these
agenda are forwarding and once they
become genuinely interested they can
change things in their countries and are
some examples show they do I think on
the same let me just let me soak
momentum our government was meanwhile
like the Minister of Transport and the
public works is not as devote part of it
for the road infrastructure all the
councils are doing their own road
infrastructure we are able as Brandon
City Council to upgrade our rose to as
fat we've the engineers we've very so
the way they have done this just to make
sure that all the areas that is
development in in the rural
infrastructure so it's not centrally
done and the devolution also in Malawi I
think we are moving faster because like
the education sectors were a fully
devoted to determine in sports and the
health sector as far also fully devote
to them of demand I suppose and and
itself the means of law government also
evolves so we are seeing that a lot of
sectors are moving to the rock to the
locals whereby in the near future we
find that rupee will be able now to
reach everywhere instead of development
and also especially in the urban areas
thank you
I'm gonna take one of the questions here
from from the app because five people
voted it up so must be in a lot of
people's minds the question is could you
please elaborate more on the link
between technology and the new urban
agenda it sounds like two different
worlds is it
I don't want to sound like
[Music]
technologically disinterest
disinterested person but I think
technology technology is not a
philosophy it is not a goal it is not an
objective technology is a tool using
that tool meaningfully requires deep
understanding of the conditions in which
this tool is applied I was moderating
the session this morning with a couple
of colleagues from China from from
Barcelona from couple of companies that
are sponsoring all this event that work
with technology no one of them ever said
that well you know I mean we are doing
this because we have this technology
they speak about sharing they they speak
about bringing services to people they
speak about achieving efficiency but
they refer to the principles that are
also enshrined in the sustainable
development goals and in the new urban
agenda in the recent past I have had
personal opportunity to see a couple of
companies in Europe dealing not with ICT
but with other advanced technologies who
have adopted sustainable development
goals as a framework in the beginning I
thought well these guys are doing some
kind of advertisement for their
corporate responsibility and when we
started discussing they say no no no we
don't care we are not selling in the
market for public
we are selling sub components to other
industrial company so we we don't care
what people think about this necessarily
they say this gives us an understanding
of how to manage long term risk and
where the world will be going because
this is agreed on international level
that's where it will be going it's not
only about climate change more and more
people live in cities and you know the
mantra and
holls everyone is speaking about how
many people are going to live in the
cities and everywhere so information
technology I think has and communication
technology has two important dimensions
and this one is of course being at the
service and helping to implement and
attain all these goals that the society
once and agrees through their
governments about going for them but
there is another dimension which is how
things are organized internally in those
companies how they are conducting their
business how they are managing their is
how they are going for for different
kind of the goals which are internal to
them and we can hear from boss from ZTE
and this morning that they understand
this framework they don't think well I
speak about sustainable development as a
whole they don't understand it is
artificial that don't think it's
artificial and it becomes a guiding
framework for their business development
I think that is a great achievement and
I also believe that companies that
understand how the society and how the
international community builds that
framework will be inevitably more
successful mayor you must speak to
technology or you see certainly and your
presentation talked a lot about
public-private partnerships and and in
the parking and and other other domains
maybe the question is more about sort of
how do you engage with the public or the
private sector and what makes a
successful engagement with the private
sector from your perspective perhaps we
need to believe that they as we are
looking at the new urban agenda who also
have make sure that the technology has
improved how do we move fast in this
side when this side we are slow those
things have to move together so that we
achieve what we are doing so if
technology is done then we are looking
for you have an agenda I would not go
there so I believe this to have to move
together in such a way that - then if we
move fast for some or other as I already
said that some of the areas are to be
proved we for example we are
regenerating the city maybe which was
which is represented how would we move
in that flow pace we need to move fast
I'd first move faster didn't we
technology also has to be the first
technology so that then they will
combine those two that's what I the way
I think great probably us we have a
question that several people voted up
also just about the world urban form
coming in Kuala Lumpur in February the
question is what are the expectations at
that forum so so can you speak a little
bit more about what to expect there both
in terms of the new urban agenda and
what that means is a milestone but also
more broadly what what happens at the
world urban forum well the world urban
forum as such has one part which is the
high level which is driven by the
frameworks that are internationally
agreed such as the new urban agenda we
try to bring together is not government
driven but we try to bring people from
the governments from the city
governments from the voluntary
associations to discuss say okay now one
and a half year has gone what is
happening on the ground how do you see
it from your perspective we are still as
United Nations and intergovernmental got
a mechanism and we try to bring
different other partners in but that is
the basis for this at the same time this
being 20,000 people you can imagine
there are a lot of different events that
happen at the fad at the world urban
forum there are side events where people
showcase of what they have achieved
bringing you know part of the
participants into auditorium there are
networking events where someone tries to
benefit from the fact that there are so
many people who are interested in the
same subject to bring them together in
the event and trying to see maybe they
can do something together
there are also training events and this
is well so technology companies come
into the picture are there often saying
okay we have this new product it has
worked and some circumstances we want to
give you an opportunity to understand
better on how this thing can work in
your situation but we also want to
understand the situation of other people
to see how this has to be modified that
we still have ten days to apply for
these events so if you go on the website
which is w u f9 dot oak world urban
forum nine session dot oak you will see
the detailed descriptions and forms
where any institution organization can
apply for all these events but even if
you had not organizing the event I think
it is important if you are interested in
this issue to participate because I
assure you there will be something to do
there are global leaders of thought that
are global leaders of governments that
come they and there are lots of
colleagues from different fields who
come and share their experience and this
is for me I would not skip although I
have to be there but if I would not have
to be I would still go there privately
this time we are also lucky that it is
in Malaysia because Malaysian government
is very committed they have something to
demonstrate and they have shown a very
strong leadership in bringing people
from the region especially
understandably well I mean as the world
urban forum travels around the world
there is always a little bit of the
regional
when I say 20,000 people I mean if it is
in Southeast Asia you would expect the
10,000 people will be from Southeast
Asia
last time was Medellin Colombia there
was a strong majority of people from
from Latin America the next session in
two years in 2020 is in Abu Dhabi so we
expect a lot of people from the Middle
East so come join us
I assure you there will be something to
do okay and we've got time for one last
question and this is for the mayor
how does Malawi tackle the challenges
like poverty disease corruption etc and
can the new urban agenda be used as a
tool to tackle these challenges if we
talk of I think I should we start with
the corruption issue in Malawi there is
the the anti-corruption Bureau and this
organization is doing a lot but if you
talk of the plant asset as a as a
consumer or what we do normally that's
why there is a political wave when there
is the secretary side and the political
side the two like wait like a oversight
which other so in most cases in councils
there is nothing like you talk of
corruption because even the procurement
process it's a long process to make sure
that is is publicized everything is done
in the open manner and everybody is able
to follow it up it goes from that go to
the government another department that
also scrutinizes whatever is happening
and after which it comes also on the
table this side and this side
critical side and the severe severe side
move together and check that things are
moving in that way ever since the
council's we are put in place there's
been something like that I think we are
moving in that direction in terms of
Sanitation as already said
Blantyre in Malawi would say is one of
the greenest cities in in Malawi if not
also in some parts of Africa but what I
would say say this is so because we work
with the community
we don't work in isolation like this
time around we launched a clean home
competition and in Princes competition
whereby the companies and the homes they
compete for who whichever the company
does the cleaning or water or whatever
the decoration of their premises at the
end of a year or six months we give out
prizes in that way we see that we are
moving in the right direction also or
we've enhanced li Olivia the collision
of garbage to the tapping side and
meanwhile we are also important
approaches where I want to be recycling
the West in that way we found that the
city is always very clean and in that
plain way there can't be an optical
kool-aid or whatever so in that way we
malawi
is a heavy country yes right great well
that's a great example of how action on
the new urban agenda I think is
happening at a very very hyper local
space like that where it's it's it's
literally citizens taking responsibility
for their their house in their
neighborhood to also at a very high
level where national governments need to
be rethinking how they have they set the
rules of the road for for cities and for
urbanization in general so I'd like to
thank you for for illuminating the
subject thank you so much and please
give a round of applause for our
panelists
[Applause]
