Title: Standards for Smart Cities
Ê
Subject: Standards & Indications

* Governance

Abstract: 

In a path towards smarter cities, standardization plays a key role by supporting the widespread adoption of common approaches and ensuring consistent outcomes as well as compatibility among technologies and services. Yet cities are complex and multi-dimensional systems, thus no single standards organization can provide everything needed. How can the standards world better collaborate to serve the needs of cities and their citizens to tackle common challenges?

Speakers: 

Katie Bird
Daniel Martinez Villaamil
Gao Sumei
Frans Vreeswijk
Chaesub Lee
Sergio Mujica

Conference: 
okay good afternoon ladies and gentlemen
I think we'll make a start apologies for
being a few minutes late we had a few
presentation issues but I think we're
there now so just wait for everybody to
take a seat on the stage
okay so I think we'll make a start then
thank you very much for attending this
this session my name is Katie bird and
I'll be moderating the session this
afternoon the idea behind this panel is
to explore the link between standards
and smart cities and we're lucky enough
to have some great experts up here on
the panel with us today
who'll be helping us out with this task
and we have mr. Daniel Martinez the
mayor of Montevideo miss Gauss who may
the executive secretary general of the
China electronics and information
industry Alliance and the heads of the
three leading international standards
organizations mr. France reader ik from
the IEC mr. Sethna Mujica from Izone and
mr. chase herb lead from ITU so as I
mentioned this panel is all about
standards and smart cities so on the one
hand we have standards which contain
guidelines or best practice or
specifications to ensure that things
work well safely and efficiently and on
the other hand we of course have our
urban areas our cities who are facing
many new and varied challenges today
very varied anything from traffic
mobility or fluidity to public
transportation systems to ensuring that
citizens have access to clean water or
improving connectivity so our job here
today is to explore how standards can
support smart cities in facing some of
these new challenges so I'd like to
thank all of our panelists for agreeing
to be part of this conversation and to
thank you all for for joining us today
so thank you thank you very much so just
to give you a few practical notes as we
progress through the session each of our
speakers has a very short presentation
and then we'll have a 15-minute question
and answer session at
and so some of you may know if you've
attended other panels already during the
day we actually have a tool that the
organizers have given us to help out
with that Q&A; session and this is an app
on the app itself you can submit your
questions there then visible to all of
the participants and can be voted on and
that allows me to know in the question
and answer session
which are the most popular questions so
if you have the app installed on your
phone you can go to the ask and vote
part of the app find our session on
there and then type away so you can ask
a question at any time during the
session but we'll ask them only at the
end and of course don't panic if you
don't have the app or you're not quite
sure how it works we can also do
questions the old-fashioned way and you
can just put your hand up during the
question-and-answer session and we'll
cover as many of those as we can so just
one final note before we get started we
will be presenting in a couple of
different languages here on the stage
today so keep your headsets handy for
the interpretation if you'll need okay
so we don't have so much time today so
without further ado I shall hand over to
our first speaker mr. France
lyric who is the general secretary and
CEO of the IEC the International
Electrotechnical Corporation so I will
hand over
so thank you very much Casey for the
introduction good afternoon ladies and
gentlemen I'm very happy and honored to
be here and see such a full audience
here today that's really great and I
hope you'll have a good and lively
discussion and as we can contribute here
as speakers a lot to your understanding
why standards matter for smart cities so
power for cities is what I said cities
they need electricity or everything and
the IEC work provides the technical
foundation for the millions of
electrical and electronic systems and
devices that are used in cities and I
think I'm going to yes no hang on okay
yes good next slide but first of all who
knows the IEC may I see a show of hands
yes yes yes okay good good but not
everyone yet so I will say a few words
about IEC the IEC is a global
not-for-profit quasi-governmental
organization that brings together 170
countries representing 99 percent of the
world population and 99 percent of the
world electricity generation we publish
international standards that fully
satisfy the world trade technical
barriers to trade agreements WTO TBT
most countries in the world accepted
products that are built and tested
according to IEC standards the IEC
provides a global platform and knowledge
platform where some 20,000 experts
volunteers from all over the world
cooperates and they develop the
international standards that are needed
by the public and the private entities
international standards are voluntary
only governments can make them mandatory
but they are voluntary
there are consensus based technical
documents that represent an agreed way
of achieving the same outcome reliably
time and again
in over 200 technical committees these
experts agree on the technical
specifications the measurements the
rating methodologies that allow millions
of electronic and electric devices and
systems to work together safely and
efficiently
these globally relevant international
standards are then adopted in many
countries around the world and for
example close to 80 percent of the
European standards are in fact IEC
standards the IC also administers for
conformity assessment systems whose
members verify and certify that products
fully qualify and they fulfill the
quality the safety and the efficiency
that the standards need to do so cities
cities are giant systems with countless
subsystems no two cities are alike or
need the same solutions but all of them
depend on electricity and hardware to
move people and things around to collect
data and exchange information it is
impossible to build an efficient urban
infrastructure without reliable energy
access no electricity simply means no
smart city and the IEC provides the
majority of the international standards
needed to safely interconnect and
automates much of the city
infrastructure that generates or uses
the electricity and contains the
electronics they opened the door to a
larger choice of products and also
facilitate long term maintenance and
repair these benefits both the city and
its citizens our work for the cities
they cover it smart electrification and
all forms of energy generation if you
think about the electrical and
electronic infrastructure for
transportation which includes trains
light railways tramps metro systems
electric and hydrogen buses cars a
scooters bikes cable cars etc supporting
infrastructure which we cover for
example in train and metro stations like
lights displays and the turnstiles the
ticketing machines the escalators
everything and the majority of the
electrical and electronic equipment that
is used in airports they check in at
luggage the conveyor systems to
transport the tracking the runway
lighting the security DX's control but
also think about the vertical water
management and here in this pictogram
you see several of those verticals water
management all the electronics and
electrics the pumps the saves the valves
the sensors the control systems it's all
needed to have clean and recyclable
water in a city without that there is
simply no hygiene so we also supports
with our standards the devices in
systems that collect data including data
centers computers fiber optic sensors as
well as security and cyber security home
and building automation household office
supplies but also everything in the
healthcare sector in hospitals in
doctors offices think about prevention
and diagnosis and treatment and then of
course supermarkets the freezers delight
Rick's delights the scanners everything
we contribute to ensuring the safety of
every living being the security of
physical and virtual systems and the
management of resources are much more
and for all these reasons every smart
city project should include IC standards
and think about its purpose and its
fulfillment there to achieve smart
cities cooperation is a must and no
longer optional why do we say that
because we are here with three
international standardization
organizations and we have recognized the
three of us that we need to cooperate
and I see extensively cooperated many
different stakeholder
and standards organizations including
consortium and fora from around the
world our aim is to bring onboard
know-how and expertise in a systems
approach and to avoid duplication and
this is also the reason why we initiated
the first world smart city forum in
Singapore last week in partnership with
ISO and ITU so IAC work helps to power
cities it contributes to 12 of the 17
sustainable development goals of the UN
and it helps to make the world a safer
and more efficient place thank you for
your attention
okay thank you very much for sharing
your thoughts on how electricity is
obviously very much a kind of central
theme for smart cities and of course the
standards that go along with that so I'd
now like to introduce our next speaker
and this gal su Mei the executive
secretary general of China's electronics
and information industry alliance
[Applause]
Koel I be near my aha moment at Yamaha
fish and oceania go change your shirt
Tahu a surgeon can see true bang bang
Kalavati Sueko geodesy way was SE suniye
Terran guardianes sincere hi Aliannah
Turpin sukiyaki pure she really the true
ha Tangier a guitar is Ojeda I'm Hanna
yo a lady and auntie Xiao Qian Gua to
reach Hong Shi de father Sandra
neuromodulation sheena serie de cochon
watch hungry hon atresia jewish Hashanah
yes a Buddha Juan de Santa Maria Tobias
Erica
Kamisha nigga sequa commenting gear
sanguine quality gotcha true that
transition - kanchanaburi Liliana
- Joanna Kennelly you can fire a fancy
or situation Jenna somewhere which
Angela can say when Buddha sentient
region Nami Senate amatriciana
to an offense to Argentina Sangha nigga
fine and Correa de ganar cha cha cha
hwa-jung wanna go to de Jong state
relationship I cannot you say Jon Secada
to go home Nina the adalat in Buddhist
Shiva cho jungseok oh yeah
- hyah - aah - hissing - which one - the
queen wise epoch
- would you find changing one language
and the power to mother our Dharma
teachings of the truth Hana team would
teach a lot to share too much aggression
is a senior shinji show the company in
europe nominee we understand fucker yes
that team would quit him singing Jewish
from GTA true holiday hero guy yeah but
when I'm introduced without quitting to
reach Hong sure your teeth and pocket
didn't want a cacciucco ha
Paco - Deepika yes that he truly our
financial chavacano
commercial attention to share my Samana
how can you john deere singing - Oh John
Cena yes channel I take up yoga
transient relationship yoga teacher
Chancellor full hand after you leave
attrition electron water retention of
important we did GT got Korea lambda
Arabic Ariana Josh John Walker
leadership and Hong Shi numata cry surah
fatiha purusa sincere service revenge on
Chicano to worship and country house in
human emotion Hyuga Jewish agenda to go
through WA our General Assembly in
Chicago family Alejandro Falla govern
the Medusa
so our darling engine watch ok sergeant
yada younger the insula just a chunk
water to a traditional English were
sensational curtisha pn d haha no meteor
darling
new offender shahe which engine 118 your
little baggage ship fur girl passengers
yo Sherwood a fortune Ishikawa initially
oh the TCD juncture
the master hominid Oh true holiday got
chunks ha ha
tickety ha Hosanna Dada lat
Shama yeah she's sure the ark occurred
yet no Matisse
this angered Coriana to share too much
of a traditional change in general are
Galician fact at the scene Deirdre wish
mrs. Marsh wanna give me two more to
attend her party at her she artfulness
samples Oh number tu PO - Johanna hi
guys for sure you got Shibuya numbers I
take a Sienna to our society Alicia
could Georgia thanks Rhonda you should
try sounding yet since you ha since you
had to take attention non pyramid Rhonda
to our tanks what yeah I'm sick I'm not
sure I should congratulate a cat inside
you should I do I think your teacher
should ensure the mamo-chan I said on
some PRT I shan't insanity against an
idea
RJ not sure yoga contractual genre
chigga chigga chung chigga chigga chigga
chigga chigga chung chigga chigga chung
hua hai OCC de kinshasa
Lamia do rah woman tiempo need your
mightiness sitting she's young chung
chigga chung here the madam Jami Gina
sure sure - mwah - chewy joke women
agents agua la Li Wang Yi ran away I
don't wanna to watch consider change to
the fire at an apartment essentially
Charlotte sung soo father
darling healing and AHA - mwah - 800
shrunk Ramona sound tada
Shri Balaji's were yo yahushua
- mother - 800 mutiny in generally go
quite so far did you go - I should have
Quinn what is that - motherfucker - waka
da dum tshhh too much of a juncture
there you go sang occurred yet
no matter what that yeah yes yeah yes
right so what you 800 obey like she shit
you mean too much tension away like this
you shit
number one the Lydian I heard anything
about passing letting John Romita
Mashona
Shoshanna sure nigga sure that he Shula
younger Banyan de Leon opinion a nigga
father movie are nematic her father who
be able to eat Runa yeah we don't watch
ovation and illegally ah who the father
and the kun da insanity go tuition at
your share congratulate up your
intelligential
to motivate Rasheeda dig too much
aggression Shapiro hot zone here -
that's an artisan yeah year for Jamila
the minutiae Twitter Christmas
understanding up your dress
true worship your drain the Jigga miss
you and your goons were early in each
Enya and you're fabulous
you're fabulous suitable dress protein
is an irony Liliana Shahana don't wanna
do you Jim fabulous see him to return to
the pinky up your dress I'm see children
that should had a toteal yo leader we
don't turn watcher which one should
attend - easy country she the father no
meteor could yet that you should kanji a
- don't jiggle bong water and she don't
wanna see go borrowed agua yeah she's
young coach just wow well Meatwad ego
Katya number how do you know
follow the Union National meeting you
the kigali yes number one on China
- you - mwah degenerate Indian legend
Granger though she she went to Yoda
serenajoe Satan wanna be a nigger see
Rusia didn't usual yeah wha-wha-what be
entering awards jung-hwa I'm Johnson you
should to manage with hello what a
chance' by choo chugga chugga chugga
chugga don't watch every time she whines
handle attention joshi diarga this
angered Korea that you sure Chum watcher
which I'm sure the fire Anna how that I
don't shout yeah chanting Buddhist
chants yeah now many family and ajusshi
have we paid on that jungle where the
other shows the Jing Yi Saracens angle
BAC Angeles Center - EW yeah hardening a
chunker the Union Oh Queen Medea Magadha
Bhatia gonna talk a team both adhesion
the Argonauts you should have a title
since young Chinese in seeking high yet
in your sins retires occurs with the
father I'm a mother father she's Anna
generations yeah I call you what so my
biggest passion you got equipment I put
on a kadhai shaping up with yep
an official function I saw the show you
not yes I Buddha Jigar Singh job
we like a China Fagin a young Kannada
for you me one day a challenge is out
your car yeah sure
way like that wait I don't challenge is
idea communion without single Christ
with a father
the Mateschitz on watch a Wichita
relights you should the Sangha for me
yet
let me also true no longer the Jewish
when you should obey like this shit
hana-chan I she kept on fighting at some
gas to enlighten a yes she wants a so
the Cougars Jana Jana thoughts hunger
the to return to the channel number
chonwati and the sincere highly ocarina
yeah wait yeah
cognac went to mother children she
defied a commission a away vehicle its
year is everyone this year we won the
Chong funny Italian could go to Shanghai
nigga la muchacha audience in a highly
awkward aku and I mean congratulating
you're taking us about what your
function on hierarchy that yoga - where
the militia from wayna someone chance
hello I'm the contamination idea so you
know Mia fish hunter one year - yeah
you should good what this yeah that's
how you junghwa function a yeah well I
thought emergency Holly whoo woman pound
you could she like so easier
you ain't burning so that way she should
have a idea she had idea okay thank you
very much for sharing some of China's
experiences with smart cities and fund
aligning the importance of collaboration
amongst industry groups and then also
standards organizations will now move on
to a third speaker of the panel
mr. Sir Hugh Mujica the
secretary-general of either the
International Organization for
Standardization
Thank You Katie good afternoon ladies
and gentlemen and very happy to be here
and to have the opportunity to share a
few ideas with with you before I start
my presentation and three concepts and
that I would like to stay with you to
set the scene for for the presentation
first by the year 2050 over 65 percent
of the world population will live in
cities according to the UN and that
means that what we do here affects
billion of people so what we do here
matters so we better do it right second
the concept of smart cities does not
belong to highly developed cities or
countries
it's not about London is not about Paris
it's not even about Barcelona it it is
not about robotics or high text disobey
shun it's a way to travel
it's a money to do things and just a few
weeks ago I had the pleasure to
celebrate the world standards day in
Zimbabwe and I was really amazed to see
the level of commitment and enthusiasm
everybody has their to make the city of
Harare as much city and the third key
concept is nobody can make a smart city
on his own so ISO is very happy to
support the construction of a smart city
but we know that there is a bigger
picture here and coordination is
essential
the good news is that we're not starting
from scratch 20 years ago nobody could
have imagined that we have emergency
services navigate along using the
fastest route or waste collectors that
know exactly when recycle bins are full
or free Wi-Fi everywhere so there is a
lot of progress out there we need to be
very proud of that but that is happening
right now as we speak
but of course there are a lot of
challenges and some of them you can see
on the screen and that means that there
is a golden opportunity for all of us to
address these challenges and to
contribute to improve life of billion of
people and of course we believe that
standards are an indispensable element
to address those challenges in an
efficient and successful manner and why
because standards provide a common
language where we can exchange
information we can identify best
practices and we can also monitor
progress which is really important
second standards can help us to have an
efficient management of resources and
also stimulate innovation because we can
build on common grounds how can I so
help well the same service as France
does anyone knows ISIL is so yeah all
right
good well I'm convinced that isodyne
helps a lot by first providing an
overall framework to define what smart
city means for me and how to get there
we need to provide responses but
respecting the identity and the reality
of each country and each city and I
think the flagship here is our ISO
37-thousand 101 which sets out the basic
for sustainable development in
communities and also the strategy to get
there but we also have developed a
number of standards to address some
specific areas which are very important
to make our cities smart you can see the
specific areas there on the screen so
this is standard represent international
consensus and best practices and a
concrete pathway to achieve our
sustainable development goals but it's
not only what we do international
standards it's also how we do it the
manner we develop these standards and in
ISO we create standards first in a
transparent manner we provide full
information about the development of the
standards in all the various steps for
that process of development second the
standard we develop our consensus based
we do not impose standards we co-create
standards with our stakeholders and
finally the third few few the first a
characteristic of standards is that we
apply an inclusive approach so it's very
important for us to respect the
diversity of our stakeholders such as
regulators politicians industry citizens
etc
now a couple of words about the future
how do we see the future first if we
want to create smart cities we need to
make sure that we apply smart
collaboration so we need to combine our
talents for a better performance that
requires first addition a vision to
understand that the bigger picture is
sometimes more important that the
individual pieces and second lot of
generosity because when I collaborate
with others when I coordinate my actions
with others and I lose part of my
autonomy but with a view to getting a
better result
so as I'd like to say everybody likes
coordination but nobody like being
coordinated and that is the talent we
have in front of us it's a challenge
that we need to address by having this
vision and by applying lot of generosity
second in this coordination we need to
address specifically first our fifth our
organization ITU and IEC we had a couple
of good news there we sign a letter of
intent about cooperation smart cities
precisely in the last General Assembly
of ISIL in Berlin and also the president
of the three organizations sent a letter
to all members asking them to coordinate
at national level sometimes is even more
challenging even more difficult to have
that kind of coordination at national
level and we also need to include others
apart from IC and ITU other standard
development organizations and that is
why we have organized world's March city
forum tomorrow and the day after
tomorrow so we make sure that we can
engage with those other standard
development organizations and the other
element the third element about the
future is that we need to be bold and
open for change in the last General
in September 162 I saw members signed
the Berlin declaration under the slogan
under the motto open minded open for
change we cannot succeed in our efforts
to build smart cities if we do business
as usual we need to go further and to do
more especially if we believe that what
we do matters and effects and we have
also the opportunity to improve the
quality of life of billion of people
thank you very much thank you very much
Sergio for sharing how important the
work is that we're all doing in this
room today and for highlighting some of
the tools that in fact already exist so
we'll now move on to our fourth speaker
for the panel mr. Daniel Martinez the
mayor of Montevideo and Uruguay so
hopefully we should be good
bueno buenas tardes un placer el talaga
me toque hablar en el rea de lo que
somos novia no locales en este tema que
esta revolution ando creo que positive
Ament a el mundo sabe endo unco numero
opportuni ah days quiero decir tambien
que el tema delta panel lokan sido muy
importante para alguien Area industrial
y que le token para trabajar estudiante
una rafinha petrleo no less ah hey
Noel team enormous in assess and raise
Segundo entails para las cosas bien con
excelencia
Phu Yen dou Madrid o e compr are say
beyond ok apart a la aplicacin de
Norma's te permit a plan if akar attend
our visualization en el futuro de que
for no un bien avance ando en las need
any mentos a strategy COEs que lo que
tenemos que tan algo mas Nueces se polo
pronto implicant desafio muchas veces la
ciudad A's ok nesset our al mondo la
ciudad a's piensa en el corto plazo y
los estndares y la la implementation
destined eres no da hooter meant a sakip
acid odd OS a fundamental additive o de
poder pensar en el largo plazo sabe end
o que la tranformation del Tracey da
days
normal meant a Noah bar con un perodo
de la oracin del vino del gobierno de
un politico sino que tenemos que no la
cabeza la capacidad de pensar rehmannia
strategic infusion de local Oceano
necesitan NOS interns politico's mess in
do Al's llaves por que no mami quino's
por lo tanto rasam oh yeah play demos
yet iniciativa baramos co mucho inters
lo lo que Seguin relies on Dolapo a
piloto y so sienna indica doors que que
bueno que esta empezando de sarousch our
focus on ESO era niente trabajo para
trabajar embassy objetivo de me corto
Mediano pero sobre todo de largo plazo
en el medio la position la luz no me de
haber nada para el ante sigue supone que
un compaero a star haciendo pasar
pantazes novara starring q Ladas en lo
que diga simplemente see al ghul Okyere
me Darla's bar tennessee informacin de
lo que estamos en de la cont do
pero creo que ce blent ace amor
emma's say alguno despues a lo quiere
entra en la pagina / - yeah Logan Tran
glia lo puedo hacer pero pero es ammo
indica t we'd add information so I hear
ya balance and operator careless creo
que lo fundamental de forma say que la
la la norma's tienen que ser para algo
gusta men telemedicine elementos de
medici own evaluation caper meetin a
value our controller bear distancia me
ento acercamiento objetivos to turn our
comparison coleauxv estacin de otro
lado x' no son neutrality rest our
infusion doge a dios por ESO para para
nosotros a fundamentally montevideo lo
que premio quisimos es para que queremos
no co intelligent a la primera pregunta
grissom hacer es ms recuerdo de una
conversacin cuando soy yo Alecto yada
koala estaba una semana que el alcalde
c'est de barcelona no estan filter ona
la herida de la una y un poco de cutie
damos sobre para que si gracias
intelligent a's
yell debate AC solo son tema de
tecnologa no es un tema de que debe
servire como una Rami enta par latter
formation por ESO no se lo que queremos
que primero que marcado's vedios
dis Orazio konami cozy tent ability'
integrati o inclusion Yael Dodd
oportunidades i participation i control
co adano desde los objetivos par los
cuales estar me enta de de ser
funcional por supuesto que Pardee des
Rosiers oh no amigo trajo empresas
privada 'he's no somos para nada
lejano de esto es ms de americanos eat
Arlo's un Armas estn de una pequea
sua case amante do capital de lui con
solo mission tray siento gente militant
espero con el quadrant ii o por ciento
los negocios que en su capital donde
esta Mo's la capitale la montee gunto
con grupo de OCHA no de empresas de
center deseo porque tengo la grande con
nosotros
Anabelle del trabajo de scaizi
intelligent a's no estamos no pero lo
queremos series no UN problema de
tecnologa
en inter made a la cosa de la cosa es
muy importante
yes Lara me enta pero que por alla
infusion Doge Etios
por ESO no se otro movin Iago condo
sarazar polticas eno quails de Sorrows
ahmo's un centro christian de Mobilia
code impact on teh resultados cam
permitido no so lo mejor ELO's tiempo de
Plaza mientras la ciudad see Nova har en
a caso lugar en un de funtional la CIMA
for accession intelligente UNC sent
initiate a poor siendo los accidentes
Desiro Samos a Tom OS arose on dohoon
token Empress's privada C yump rendered
or ACP Knesset our tap sistema de
contrle pres emplo division del senado
de contain adores medicine de ruin
diffrentes punto de calidad de calidad
de rozier movin o tecnolgica meant a
mucho facto result organelle sector
privado l center della della Kadima pero
ESO es como se mozo de la parte del del
del trabajo una parte de lo que queremos
unless Atomos a ser para Laura los
objetivos que SATA fashioned o los
ciudadanos pero tambin esta la otra
pata de forma lagron OHS en este mundo
de marrn a Lakia como los amo algn
socio lo Annabelle doll rationale en
donde parece que todos en la Banali de
la Paix importancia y la estancia la
government a fuera el paradigmatic
necesitamos creer utilize honest es
inteligente a si la sera Mientus de la
conc intelligent A's
como Iranian today sir Canyon Co Edano
de transparencia por que los llanos
sipping loki atomos asientos haciendo
que controllin en que estamos de niro
pblicos pero su s tambien de forma de
poder critic our report arias in terror
Sato informacin a la hora de poder a
value our nose in ter SPD to critic o
para tener los elementos
para jugar a quines los llanos
depositor oh no su voto por ESO no es a
Rosado Montone day a Peppa's extra
mentos atrovent a sistema de la red acc
temmuz des marseille smarphones
de forma de que los sodanope weddin
tener en una vez au sistema de penndot
a-- access o absolutamente toda la
informacin y el trabajo say case a
general in tendencia deduce agin en
todas obras que Sambo Tod oh and Annabel
Lee case and a co sir Anabel del Del Rey
in LA municipal er in tendency acaba en
un tiro a un control de lo que se quanto
serra Todd okay Sabrina siendo chain
available Sabra
de complement Oh Knievel satisfaccion
impact on a CEO Daniel tetiny Ando
utilize our tambin la la la hija para
informal allo vecinos de cada lugar
donde una hora de France - todas est
siendo
Calton ateva tienen demova need a
deposition de receive owes Sergio's
guano's soluciones que hacer que la
hestian y la trappe Orencia la gestion
de la ciudad y la trappe Orencia el
control de ayudarnos a la vie de cte d
anna harrier tambien a paper caper
meetin soluciones problemas cote de
noche saber cuanto a maroon busca
alternativa tengo para un punto otro
simi comeon esperar a CNT bordega bien
esta muy say no en cetera cetera
o soluciones que definitive Oh nos
permiten yo know Kelsey o no se sienta
participate protagonist ax de lo que es
la gestion en esta poca de Malaga
decir muchas veces para Sierra que los
Politico fuera Mo's ms para cenar hey
la pantalla chica or do me do electroni
go y hacer de carne uso c-- or / tenemos
el desafo de hacer que la tecnologa
Nasia simplemente algo sin Alma be free
Oh si lo que l'otan hola here tambien
Silva para Sircar la gestion pblica
alcio no Casey oh no sienta party
participate at rubella trap Orencia ctrl
+ OS tan inform on D control ando critic
on dope lan diablo viendo a proton de
deus pero siendo protagonist ax c
non-definitive ax appease okay tyrion su
memento or well zag el libro million del
do Cho bat de hacer simple du Libre
fission para ser today's unit Rita alia
tenemos la oportunidad de vez la
tecnologa para solution are los
problemas true tambien para el proton
embrace yadda knows las normas he
co-hosts Ament a neat antenna lacerum en
t'les como para controlar
katie objetivos a strategic okay como
politico's row tambien como comprar met
Eidos una futuro democracia Kadima
profunda participative adonai Mo's
realmente sass enormous contribution
objetivo largo plazo pen definitive a
VAR fe co de todos los habit on Tay da
de smooches
thank you very much
so we'll now move on to our fifth and
final Speaker of the day
mr. chase utley from ITU and yes thank
you very much for all of you keeping so
wonderfully at a time
good afternoon ladies and gentlemen I'm
live from IT oh I'm very happy to being
here with you taking some of our
advantages from our distinguished
colleagues who presented of the
assistant that works specifically from
the international standard
organizational point of view whatever
you have any suggestion or any questions
or are curious please go to our website
there are tons of informations let me
try to show this what is I 2 I 2 is
actually one of the UN specialized data
agency as a responsible for the ICT
developments so the government is our
major memberships 193 membership same a
same way the UN and also we have a
multi-stakeholder models so more than
700 industries they are members mostly
operators ICT industries they are our
members as well also we have academia
members 150 academia members they are
doing of this our platforms to develop
our standard I want to easy wait to find
out what standard we are you use as
basically all your smartphone's
use of our standard wherever whether
this is series or 4G you've been coming
5g they have to use of our standard or
your video video codecs video streams
also use of our standard as well and how
so I have the disposable product ICT
developments our broadband connectivity
is also a responsibility area
I to engage of this I attend a smarter
City space since year 2008 we have a cut
along history of these studies and that
we conclude our members conclude at year
2015 we can merge together of these IOT
and the smarter City so we make a one
expert a group called Iook at the
smaller cities we did that experience
let me challenge you when you think of
this as smart cities what kind of image
do you have maybe a boss up for
different photos many of case you may
think about Appa pot could be nice
enough to say that so smart cities but
below part why not smart cities because
smart cities doesn't mean of this
modernized smarter City is a reflect of
our cities being smart in general city
has been built and continuously changed
based on the physical locations having
of this environmental impact they are
heavily dependence of this local history
and their culture and the citizens
behavior always changed this is a very
very important elements for designing of
our cities except of death the tangible
reasons why I have to City continuously
changed it means none of the cities are
the same there might be big challenges
object how why we have to utilize
standard for cities specifically
international standard organizations has
a big challenges we are literally
wondering about applying of this
international standard make all cities
looked like the same
can you imagine after the smartest
all cities have a same nature of these
franchise restaurants coffee shops all
these they should be disaster I don't
believe this is a one or pitch of the
smart cities while we are applying about
technologies most important part is we
have to keep their own City own history
their culture their own specific things
how we can have that it is important to
subject while we bring over our standard
to the communities to the cities to the
markets there are many other things but
as a quickly look at smart cities would
be consistent
devices systems and they drive those
data's and the platforms service and
application operations there are many
other standard organizations already
engaged so could be as our colleague
said collaboration is most important
part but we also encourage competition
as well because this each seat has a
different natures but most one of the
important part is whether we have a
competing standard or not harmonization
is important because this is what need
of the city of covenants in this sense
I'm also happy to be organized together
of this ayesha a so I do what the
smartest City forums which will start
tomorrow
one more information promised is I - we
have organized the so-called United for
smarter sustainable cities this is new
union initiatives collaborating with the
16 UN organizations we developed a smart
city KPIs those KPIs applies to reduce
EU faces see this is open space so
anyone have been interesting on this
journey of these initiatives and welcome
new so can you find of this summer
contacting point so those groups have
also City working groups forming up to
address how
can deliver this more resilient and the
sustainable smart cities to the world so
this is a collaboration activities a
univita reservoir so we try to collect
all inputs and all collected or opinions
and bring to the UN a UN agendas I think
that'll be the my major presentations
thank you very much okay thank you very
much so I think we'll now move on to the
question-and-answer session so thank you
very much for sticking to time and even
saving us time this is much appreciated
I hope you've all been submitting
questions in the app I think I have a
huh so I have some questions here so we
have a top question which I think will
be directed to you as some of our
standards organizations and particularly
I see when it is affirmed that no
electricity no smart cities does this
mean that smart City just relates to
technology so I would like to direct
that to anyone on the panel he's
interested in responding at friends
perhaps you'd like to start off and then
maybe we can hear from essentially you
and chase them and anyone else who'd
like to add yes thank you so yes of
course as I said it is a condition to
have electricity and it is a condition
to have connectivity to make things
smart it also means that of course
without electricity it simply cannot be
done on the other hand electricity is
not all of a smart city then that's why
we are sitting here also together and
giving the same message to everyone that
we need to collaborate because there are
a lot of standards in the infrastructure
that may be electrical which are same or
on our part of the spectrum
but I equally there is the connectivity
part more in the ITU space there is the
mechanical there is the chemical part
more in the eyes open space and you name
it we need to with those converging to
to make sure that we collaborate and
together solve that complex puzzle of
that very complex system of all those
verticals that you would like to
optimize going forward so being smart
means a lot
electricity is a very important one as I
said the condition silicone on without
it it doesn't work but we have to do
this holistically and we have to design
it from the requirements that the city
managers need to put on the table so
that we can definitely create the
standards and ensure that the standards
work together in the various verticals
that need to communicate and
specifically also the whole data
structure and the control structure is
very essential there over there anybody
else want let me let me do that
talking about these Smarter Cities is a
competitive normal City why we call of
this smarter city smart needs something
data from unknown areas we have to
understand the situation of this
someplace is happening the city but
communities but this data coming from
our devices our systems to produce all
this data definitely we need the
electricity so electricity what I wanna
say this is the infrastructure of
infrastructure because conductivity is
the clue to get of this smart being
smart of this operation of the cities
and communities as a Francis said input
of the party is that city smart cities
more than technologies but until
collecting of this data
everything is looks like a technology
oriented but after collecting your data
how to process how to understand all
this data how to react this corrected
data there's a human beings
responsibility how this is a city
governor's the Bayeux policies their
regulations facilitate of these those
application of
such data so smart cities modern
technology definitely and I think I
mentioned at the opening of my
presentation that the concept smart city
does not belong to highly developed
countries or highly developed and cities
and I celebrated the smart cities day
together with the Herrera city in
Zimbabwe and they are very enthusiastic
and committed about smart cities so
technology can help certainly but it's
way much bigger and broader that
technology for example management good
management is indispensable or energy
road safety responsible water
consumption so those are some of the key
concept that we need to embrace in order
to have a smart serum ok thank you very
much another question that's been asked
a slightly more practical level how
actually are the organizations
collaborating so how our why you see an
itu-t collaborating so and would anyone
like to take that when we have a great
example of that in fact tomorrow but I
shall they want I think he meant to
presentation let me opened I think it's
our colleagues will follow the standard
is the language step the result of this
standard is a written text there should
be enough to implementable so
collaboration among the standard
organization as you to identify our
language get together so this is
understanding is very important but when
you call those smarter city or smart
your same sense or do how much different
to knowing of this understanding of this
language is very important so this award
a smart city forum we have a first
announcement of this co-locate
collaborated collected terms of
reference of these terminologies on
smart cities that is a one of
collaboration result even definitely as
a Francis said
be sure of this our standards how the
other standards is working together
many of these infrastructure elements we
need a club we need some collected
collected of standards is really helpful
for building with assistant as Motor
City's okay thank you very much and
another perhaps more practical question
as well we did a little poll earlier at
the beginning of this session of how
many of you actually were aware of the
three standards organizations that are
here on the stage today iso/iec 90 you
it might be interesting as well just to
explain a little bit more detail for
people if anyone in the audience was
perhaps interested to be involved in the
development of a standard now is that
possible and how would it work
perhaps Stephanie oh and France or one
of you could perhaps to explain a little
bit more detail how it is in fact you
mentioned both briefly getting different
stakeholders involved in the
conversation bringing people around the
table perhaps you could expand a little
bit on that yes I can and I think for
ISO and IEC who have what we call joint
directives that means that our processes
are very much alike we work very much in
the same way we asked in F from every
country one organization is the national
standards body in ISO or the
coordination of committee in IEC
together around their tables all the
stakeholders involved in the process all
the stakeholders that can contribute
that is of course the government in many
ways that is of course academia it's of
course the private sector but also the
public sector in various shapes and
forms and we need them around the table
because as mentioned by session by me we
are creating in our organizations
consensus based standards standards that
either say the consensus of the best
practices codified knowledge and every
one of you if you want to contribute to
that there is an organization in your
country with where that you can contact
and that is our member in for our two
organizations in your country and that
member can
lead you so that you can become active
in a Technical Committee where the
problem that you are worried about is
being discussed and you can help to
bring your solutions to the
international arena where it can be
discussed with all the countries so that
we get the best out of all the
experiences and all the say best
practices that are being done by all of
these countries here and that you can
see here at the expo and I think that is
the great benefit of international
standards that you can bring that to the
table with everyone and it can be
discussed and decided upon and can be
put into a standard so everyone can
benefit from it okay thank you very much
and I think we have time for perhaps one
more question one minute left
I'm super happy a question was a
question of course quiero es la una
pregunta alcalde porque de ser Alaric
Honduras implement our standards on
proceso de la dia mental Argos ek muchas
veces no coincidental or tiempo cyclic
urgency --is polticas de cargo case on
Electro's cumulative era compile
compatibilizer amber concepts
puno preguntamos no implicit anar una
mentally on concepto co2 cumin seed okay
cuando los tan poltica no de estar m
fe co Prosecco personal C no tiene loan
or decir Alecto palcio da no para
cumplir una meta por lo tanto lo que
hacer es esta blazer make animos que lo
jenner are polticas largo plazo que lo
que en definitive arbiter cambios no
existen element accin de sistema de
codification del conocimiento como dijo
move en el amigo que se definitive okay
un enorme code offical conocimiento y la
mejor s practica pala solutio dela
problemas no es imposible implement
Arlo's yo no se tuna uno plan efika como
para que jenner are una cultura en toll
on ization kate recientemente perioded
ratio y cambia todo lo que se estaba an
induced Oh puppy tambien Rico's camos
que cuando uno messiest and re si cuando
uno tren de mess sistema de control de
comparison benchmark en lo que SIA messy
evaluate AMA contrast rod puede ver lo
que quiero que me controlling me parece
democrtico un sistema en el cual la el
politico's y tienes tiene
responsabilidad
CN CT CT Madiga meant a contra la dope
los llanos por ESO y seat on Texas ten
sia en el hospital a cos intelligent
angel kado hacia la participation el
control ill informacin de soie da no
quran Tia disclpame no La Tengo creo
que es un compromiso etic Omar Khadr
Dante thank you thank you very much I'm
afraid we are indeed out of time so
we'll have to conclude and call it a day
there I'd like to thank our panelists
very much again for joining us and for
sharing their insights and experiences
up here and thank you very much for
coming along for listening and and for
taking part and for asking all of those
questions at the end so thank you very
much and enjoy the rest of your day
