Title: Leveraging the Potential of City Networks
 
Subject: Data Governance

* Governance

Abstract: 

In a context of growing internationalization, the need to reinforce collaborative efforts between individuals, cities, and networks is vital for sharing and transferring technical know-how and experiences to meet common urban goals. Yet there is a need for a new approach of city networking that stresses qualitative partnerships involving peer-to-peer transfer of knowledge. How can cities join forces to strengthen a single voice at a global level?
 Speakers: 

Pep Roig
Mehrnaz Ghojeh
Shannon Lawrence
Rodrigo de Oliveira Perpétuo
Bernadett Köteles-Degrendele
Paulo Oliveira

Conference: 
good evening and welcome everyone I'm
Manas go Jay I'm your moderator for this
session in this session we will touch on
a number of trends occupying the rapidly
growing and evolving city network
landscape and we'll explore the role of
cities as both actors and Acton's
there's an increasing body of
contemporary literature that highlights
the way in which city networks are
evolving it can be argued that most city
networks are not static and finite
rather they tend to benefit from having
an agile platform of management and
operation helping them navigate through
the complex governance and technical
landscape of cities this often permanent
state of flux and development has given
way to a range of different city network
topologies before I introduce our
panelists for this session I'd like to
leave you with three key themes and
questions that I find fascinating about
this topic and I hope that throughout
the rest of this session and through the
presentations from our speakers we can
explore these further
the first one is networking networks
what I mean by this is how networks
connecting and coordinating with other
networks while avoiding conflicts and
overlaps in their mutual goals
with over 200 city networks and Counting
across all shapes issues and forms
how can cities be better informed in
selecting appropriate networks my fear
is that currently the pattern
demonstrate that this happens far more
opportunistically than strategically the
second point I want to raise is
leveraging private partnerships some of
the new waves of city networks have made
it part of their mission to strengthen
public-private partnerships to ensure
implement ability of their initiatives
I'd like to know if city networks can
facilitate a successful and nuanced
model for privatizing development and
socializing businesses the final point
I'd like to raise is tracking outcomes
and progress
I'm interested to know how our outcomes
currently being tracked and monitored
across the various city networks how can
we ensure we're delivering tangible
impacts for cities but most importantly
and fundamentally for their citizens and
whether this is being done through
accountability policy regulations or
indicators on that note I'd like to
introduce our panelists for this session
which amongst them represent five
different city networks ranging from
being set up in the 1980s to the early
2000s and from varying membership sizes
of 90 cities to 240,000 representatives
on that note I'd like to introduce you
to mr. Joseph Pruitt from UCL G United
cities and local governments okay thank
you I'm I'm gonna speak in Spanish you
need translation you figured represent
and oh dude a days ago he knows localize
Unidos
que de hecho una red de gobierno Flo
calles pero yo diría que nos e okobu
movimiento hace más de cien anos he
knows the red hablamos de organizaciones
historic event a nuestra hija chino
pasado por muchas de tapas a pasar
centralized ah de mess decentralize ah
de en este momento estamos UN
organization distribuidora hey she owned
a red ace y como de ella presented ora
el paisaje de los de ciudad de cambio
mucho de entrada tenemos que en la
janaba muchos actors vamos los precios
la gente aquí para abba CU de gobierno
local o gobierno municipal de la ciudad
es mucho mucho más amp vamos diciendo
que la ciudad okra emos
those heinous Ernesto's todos estos todo
son los actores principales de la ciudad
y despues Barea los principal exact
origin of Steven or Steve Austin was
pretty pleased at torres said Ruben go
mini mantras grandes groupers los tiros
a group analysis grande Impreza's iota
space a group and creando lo que llamo
Sociedad seville organizaciones de la
sociedad seville he dispersed a group an
o Bolton en lo que son los novios lo que
des por lo tanto de entrada tenemos como
tres grandes grupos pero SI sólo fuera
esto se da bastante senses / na Brasa da
porque despues cada uno estos grupos de
ser local national or global con la cual
do ya tenemos tres portrays Nueve y es
menos que cualquier ciudad en cualquier
momento en este momento de coeur de nada
Laura in Teresa's del sector privado
local del sector privado nacional del
sector privado
global para poner UN exemplo como cordon
ahmo's las operaciones de uber or Airbnb
con las operaciones de los taxis audible
mercado del mercado de alquiler lo
cadeau pour Dondo tenemos tenemos una
serie de de de novellas distintos de
fête Evo's distintos
y que papel juegan aquí los Cobos
locales y represent ando aqui una rent a
governor's locales y por lo tanto
nuestro region es muy claro cuando la
ilahe Adela's raised a few days uno de
preguntar quien es el padre quien es la
madre y también y tambien redis que son
mixed 'as contrar casos de un
philanthropic ryouna red que a grupa a
calles a bond Ramos Conroy des que
vienen de los movimiento sociales y que
también se convierte en Piazon desde
Abajo Beaudry upon L exemplo days Londo
a los international KMPS announces
Lambos y despues de cambiar de una
organización mundial poured and o el
pasaje es muy complejo
yo importante importante de todo esto es
que al Senado bono hay un Mercado Kisa
como dacia como Ella presented hora un
poco competitive Oh resulted iffy still
here
a parameter okay
Loki me gustaría remark r es que pasar
de hay muchos actores cada uno de
encontrar monstrosity o yq a quando
Partin ariados tenemos que saber
exactamente cual es nuestro amor
los llanos locally so more caviar knows
locales
empresa son impresses illa llah Sofia's
Sevilla Scioscia Seville in todas
caminar estas cosas a veces most facile
pero en este momento por el lado de
responsabilidad poco in a lab or a
famous desde la una primera lab or
nuestra es estar presentes en las
discussion s en las agendas Global A's
no queremos de haar las grandes
decisions del mundo en Manos única mint
a de los gobierno nacional de las
Naciones Unidas oh de las Impreza's que
tiene más influency ignore so terse
poor tanto que hemos hecho hemos tenido
el movimiento politico an evil con la
ayuda de muchas de la Rey des que estan
aqui para poder de algunas cosas cuando
se SanDisk UT end oh no he did worse
Desiree no sustainable a cuando el clima
de scooty end o la hermana
poor tanto tenemos una primera funcion
okay es decir no queremos Coburn our al
mundo
pero si que Ramos de menthe a fallacy
dou que decía c los al caldez governor
no mundo a me Dada mucho miedo que en el
mundo y tenemos que conseguir otros
tipos de cobre governance a fist inter
pero si que tenemos que estar presentes
yo are no estrus ideas por que por que
finalmente la implementation de muchos
desta's desta's políticas sir are an
evil okada cuando se Alana dices a
posterior los objetivos del reloj
sustainable a todos los expertos dicen
el se cent apportioned avian depend a
los Cobos locales y cuando los quiero
decir con todos los actores came en
Salado antes pero es un tema que se
Desiree Anabel local por lo tanto a
momento yo creo que tenemos que pensar
que anna mundial yo creo que des
equilibrado un poco la la relaciones
lolo locally low global la globalization
avisek lebra doe
tenemos que raki librar la sociedad
rectally Laurel territorio ray clear are
la economía y todo esto es un objetivo
que tenemos que tener desde los go
beyond OHS locales
today's displays a Stuka Famers pues una
vez a hol Lobby Yoenis a deed agendas
Keeton tamos intend ahmo's roberto
mullahs las agendas locales de cada uno
de los gobierno de alguna manera some
capacity concealed sus propios objetivos
pro dominoes objetivos low valets tanto
que las agendas globalize no Cayenne
para kaiidas en un territorio no sin
quaint Hren con alcalde desde hace
muchos anos rest an applic on doe
políticas de clima política sociales
políticas economicus políticas de
desarrollo pour tanto tenemos que
cambiar esta agendas globals con lo que
está siendo cada uno de los cows cada
uno de los vinos
también en todas nuestras este momento
squeeze a la más importante lo que
estamos intentando es implement are las
acciones y después de implement our own
está en la presented or a pea cake
Ramos Kass Airport ambien monitor a oye
Valu acción de los resultados Rio
guests ezrin elementos cada pero keifa
me gustaría khabar con un mensaje
es que en este mundo que esta camión no
tanto que yo creo que se ponen
questioned muchos de los mode ellos
economic oh so she allah's creo que los
go vo knows local s tenemos una una
función principal en este momento que
es reinvent our la democracia lo kado
yest a un tema kc r lo hicimos bien
puede cambiar también los mode ellos
Anabel global creo que estas la la
fusion principal de nuestro grain es en
este momento reconsider our un poco como
lo gramo Sanibel local compartir dolos
conocimiento sent a todos estos actors
came o situate a como lo Gras Mo's que
los actores local tengan Libertad a
decision la capacidad de muchos locales
Libertad a decision no lo que nace de
rigueur so psychopathy de perak to our
sobre los problemas y finalmente tenemos
tambien yester are responsibie a
compartir Mo's todos en este momento
Alvar un poco como
están prodigy endo las cosas en este
mundo Mucha suerte en la transparency
accountability tenemos que ser
transparent A's tenemos Adar cuentas de
lo que estamos haciendo tenemos Segura
que connect our cabesnoz con los Teva
Bono's que al final son los que todo
mundo represent ahmo's y que queremos
que al final sale los beneficios des des
rodeo muchas gracias
[Applause]
appalling Shannon Lawrence from c42 come
to the podium
thank you very much and hi everyone I'm
Shannon Lawrence with c40 we're to build
on I think some of the themes spoken
previously by our moderator and by our
organization from UCL G and I think
these will be built on down the road but
I will try and highlight a little bit I
think the the may be distinct role of
c40 to come to one of these first
questions about with this proliferation
of city organizations is there a unique
role and space for all of us I would
argue yes and let's see how this plays
out so c40 we are an organization
focused specifically on working with the
world's largest cities so predominantly
mega cities that are working together to
address climate change and manage
climate risk and this is very much c4
T's reason for being obviously there's a
bigger sustainability agenda that's tied
up in this but this is really why we
exist and what we continue to focus on
our membership now represents about 650
million people and about 25 percent of
the global GDP so another perhaps
distinction or key element of C for T's
work is that we were an organization set
up by mayor's for mayors we are very
much continued to be a political
organization engaging the mayoral
leadership of our 91 member cities and
the the thinking behind this structure
of C 40 was that cities can best learn
from other cities and city leaders can
best learn from other city leader
leaders so our reason for bringing
together those political leaders is
really the inspiration sometimes the
political cover and backing that they
need for bold initiatives and really the
learning and best practice sharing that
needs to happen at that political level
however we don't just stop at the
political level because also we are
accountable for result
and actually helping cities deliver
climate action on the ground and the way
we do that is also engaging the
technical officials in our cities
through our semantic networks and this
is the program that I lead at part of C
40 and accelerating climate action by
helping cities engage on particular
topics around energy and buildings
transportation urban planning waste and
water really the biggest impact areas
for climate action
you can't talk about climate change you
can't talk about urban development
without having a view to adaptation and
the importance of managing those climate
risks we very much work in that area as
well and do you have a partnership with
a hundred resilient cities and are
always working to make sure we can
better increase that collaboration to
address this issue of common agendas I
think between city organizations and we
also work in the area of economic
development and green growth with a
smaller program so coming back to the
idea of tracking progress and results
e-40 has a number of KPIs for our
funders and one is really trying to
demonstrate how by bringing city
officials together to learn from each
other talk to each other interact visits
each other cities on study tours engage
in workshops how that is actually
helping them do something more better or
faster on the ground my team has to
track this quarterly we report it to our
funders and to our board in our steering
committee it's a really key part of what
our networks do and that happens in sort
of obvious ways with connecting city
officials sharing best practices sharing
the mistakes that they've made in this
very safe space inspiring one city to
another with bold visions that's all
quite obvious what maybe isn't so
obvious is that we're able to engage our
city officials in a way that they can
provide free consultant advice to one
another where you need to develop a bus
rapid transit program and one cities had
challenging ink challenges engaging
stakeholders around
we can bring five other cities to help
share lessons critique their plan and
give them feedback based on their own
experiences that can help them improve
what they're doing in a free and
tangible way and also something I'll
talk a bit more about in our next slides
is how this power of cities coming
together working together can really
influence other actors be that national
governments regional governments but
increasingly the private sector and the
market as well through collective action
so last year c40 put out a report that
did try to actually quantify the role of
cities in helping to meet the Paris
agreement and delivering the necessary
emission reductions and we looked at the
importance of doing this and taking this
action within the next four years noting
that emissions need to peak by 2020 for
us to stand a reasonable chance of
avoiding catastrophic climate change so
our deadline 2020 report was produced in
partnership with Arab but then we looked
at the fact that we can't just have a
report and everyone say yes we're gonna
work to do more and we know this is so
important we actually need to help our
cities get down to work and actually
plan implement the actions that are
going to enable this to be possible so
last week 25 of the world's biggest
cities their mayor's actually signed on
a commitment here I'm highlighting our
2050 date but it actually is to develop
and begin implementing a climate action
plan in line with the Paris agreement
ambitions by 2020 so it's trying to show
this power the the power that cities
speaking together as a single voice and
taking action together can deliver and
then also critically it's so important
for us the sister city organizations to
be united in the work we do on the
global stage and I think we've seen huge
advancements in this really starting at
cop I would say well probably before
that but coming to the forefront at cop
15 in Paris and then looking at excuse
me cop21 in Paris in December of 2015
and also now just this week in Bonn
where we have new models around the
global covenant of mayors a really
critical tangible demonstration about
how the city organizations can form a
partnership in a way that tracks and
inspires our cities to act so this is
the kind of I think global partnership
that's really showing the the numbers of
cities and there were great emissions
reduction quantifications as part of
this that says to national governments
we are forced to be reckoned with you
need to be doing more than we're doing
and we're doing a lot so it's that kind
of collective power that's so important
and then earlier I mentioned C forties
increasing rule and trying to use the
power of cities to shift markets in the
right direction so this is a strategy
that was actually we came on a bit of an
accident a couple of years ago when we
launched our clean bus declaration of
intent there were a number of cities
that we work with that said listen we
want to buy clean bus technology but we
can't afford it some cities don't even
have access to it so we thought can we
aggregate the numbers of cities show the
potential and the power of that demand
demonstrate to manufacturers the market
is there if you can provide what they
need at the right price and can that
have an impact London will note that
they received a 10% reduction in the
price of electric buses which they
attribute to this declaration and that
power of tens of thousands of market
potential and demand coming together to
make this sign the next thing that we
just released it is showing up there
okay a couple of weeks ago so evolving
from signalling and intent to buy a
technology which is also not much of a
commitment to actually now having 12
mayors who have committed to only
purchase zero emission which in this
case is basically full battery electric
or hydrogen buses from 2025
this is a really strong statement from a
pretty globally diverse group of cities
and this is just the first tranche of
this 12 mayor's committing to do this by
2025 and we'll be looking to unveil more
and more cities in the year
in the year that comes leading up to the
global climate action summit next
September in San Francisco but what this
highlights too is the role that not just
cities need to play in delivering on
this agenda so we'll be working with our
other non-state actors which are the
businesses and the private sector
community to help create the synergies
between our two agendas that will enable
this to be possible so while I I
certainly agree with some of the
moderators first questions and the need
to look at how we're avoiding conflict
and duplication how we're tracking and
learning progress I would argue that at
least in my four or five years in this
space I think we've come a really long
way and I also think the number of our
cities would feel like each of us is
playing a unique role in delivering on
this agenda however there's still more
to do so it's important for us to have
events like this and continue to share
and figure out how we can go further
together thank you Thank You Shannon
like to invite mr. Rodrigo Beto to come
to this stage Rodrigo is from Italy he's
a regional director in South America
focusing on local governments for social
sustainability
Thank You Margit thank you very much
good afternoon to everyone I would speak
in Portuguese but then they said I
couldn't so Shakespeare will forgive me
our address you in English not to
disturb sir franchising his own land
well I think many things have been said
I'd like to start with greeting my
colleagues in in the panel and and the
audience I see some friends and
colleagues but through this leadership
through this person who inspires us all
Joseph's troika Joseph's rowing has a
very important role in this movement of
having cities Network others in better
their challenges and helping cities to
address their own challenges as well so
I public would like to give you my
personal recognition and I'm sure there
are thousands that comes with me and
join me in that recognition to usual
that thank you very much how try to be
brief and give you two perspectives
besides present any clay but Chenin
thank you very much if we change the
brand your presentation could be my own
a clay and c40 sister city as sister
cities Network let's see that is it is
it's the same thing so they address the
big de magus it is c40 any clay it's a
more wide city network we are globally
spread with 1000 and 500 members and
different levels of governments as Hoek
stressed not only sit level but regional
and and local one so I will abstain
myself to present our programs to
present our guidelines of work because I
think really I really think we we
assisted networks we do basically a very
similar task and through very similar
channels and way of life I'll focus my
speech in how we see and we have written
a report on climate sister
smart city so how weekly sees smart seed
City concept and this movement come
through first I think it's very
difficult to say that there is a smart
city what is intelligence if we look at
people what is the concept of an is an
athlete more intelligent than engineer
is a doctor more intelligent than an
artist I mean what is intelligence and
what is city intelligence what is being
is math is just to use technology so our
report on climate smart cities basically
gives one strong message intelligence
has to do with quality of life with
dignity with rights and IT has to be on
service of ethics that's that's our
final message on on that report so we
organized that through six elements key
elements the first one and trying to
address the moderator questions is
information so intelligence is to have
information but to do what to better
draw formulate and implement public
policies data is crucial to the quality
of public policies without that no mayor
no no public servant can make good
policies so the second thing is from
transparency data is also in four
important to inform people what you are
doing
transparency is about that and that
should be done strongly and the third
thing on data and transparency and
information is that it is supposed to be
a dialogue to pepper talked about local
democracy so data is a crucial to to
increase and radicalize local democracy
and the aim to produce data is as well
to qualify citizen participation on the
local spheres of government the fourth
element is intercept or eality cross
transversal initiatives
that will benefit in a complex way an
address in a complex way the complex
challenges cities face nowadays we
cannot operate in a forward way anymore
in boxes with issues we have to operate
in a complexity matrices of initiatives
which communicate and collaborate with
each other the fourth one is the ethics
and I think the global marks and treats
on sustainable development and climate
on the new urban agenda the SDGs gives
us that that mark the ethical mark that
we need to drive intelligence in cities
and there they the last one on this is
history identity culture no city can be
considered intelligent or smart if this
city doesn't know itself its background
its memory its culture and its history
so I think the cultural element is also
fundamental I'd like to say a few things
on the challenges we have as cities
network and the responsibilities within
those challenges as well
Fiji champion for climate change was
addressing different sessions and its
speeches during Bonn I'm coming from
Bonn and he said that he addressed this
small village at Fiji with an e-ticket
for buses and they were all happy at
that village and then once it's and
asked that back there the room but
mister mister champion for climate it's
very good to have a tickets and
technology but bring us buses first so
this whole thing on sustainability and
intelligence comes in some regions such
as mine Latin America with the difficult
task to have poverty as an additional
component of the complexity and the
tasks and cities networks itself they
are horizontal organizations so it means
that yaki is
is not there or should not be there and
it depends them on the solidarity and
the collaboration between their members
to work well and to be able to provide
the right environment to exchange
experiences and to deliver this
knowledge into into exchange and an
interchange as well the mayor of Quito
said that the one of the best things he
joins in this kind of conference is
small talks with other mayors so
sometimes we seek for sophisticated
tools to address city to city
cooperation but he said and advised me
three minutes with a mayor and I could
grab a health center that would go to
the parks to measure people blood
pressure to see if they have diabetes
and that's prevented me to spend
thousands of millions of dollars on
health and I have seventy thousand
people per month going on those small
houses to measure health in the parks so
simply fine things helps a lot as well
and this is what Italy is trying to do
prosím it with the city's understanding
of their own challenges and problems and
addressing with mainframes and solutions
that are both at the same time simple
but also efficient and the other thing
that we have is of course we we try to
collaborate and I think this is
improving have the global task force
with joint results before to UCL G and
other big networks and we have the
Global Covenant of Mayors which Shanno
mentioned but we are terrible we compete
a lot we are terrible we are far away
from having a strong and true
collaboration that should benefit the
cities and not only ourselves as
organization and that's not only our
fault the international system way of
giving money to international
cooperation is very wrong
it imposes that competition now the
glove that the Global Covenant of Mayors
is imposing u.s. collaboration so this
is new to us and
we are happy we are collaborating it is
working well we should have more
frameworks that imposes collaborations
so that we don't need imposition anymore
and a very last comment if you allow me
moderator we city networks look at our
at our our own belly a lot we have if we
say we know the cities we say we
understand the mayors but actually being
honest with you and to myself
we don't we far away to know well the
city's and its complexity challenges and
we are not acting fast enough to improve
that bad habit of ours so we have a lot
to do and I'm sure we will do it
together thank you very much it's really
interesting
I've got been edit deck Rendell er from
euro cities who's a smart cities project
coordinator euro cities were founded in
1986 if I'm correct and they've got
approximately about 130 member cities
within Europe she's going to tell us a
little bit about their work and some of
the projects that she's working on
so thirty years ago there was a
visionary mayor and joined another
visionary mayor who taught that it was
useful to share their challenges and
come up with solutions last year I was
in Milan we had an annual conference of
Euro cities and I was listening to our
secretary-general annalisa boney who
would have loved to be here today but
you have to be happy with me and she was
saying I had a dream I wanted to bring
young minds together to think about the
future of cities so last year we had a
call sent out to simple citizens asking
them about what do you think about the
future of cities so this is not what we
do an everyday basis but why I'm saying
this is that we really believe that the
future is in the citizens and the cities
and why we are engaging of course and we
are representing as a network of
politicians so mayors we are also
representing the population so and
that's the most important element the
people behind the citizens and our
strength is actually is being a European
Network so you can see that we don't
limit ourselves to the European Union
current borders we collaborate amongst
35 different countries and we also work
very much with major cities so the ones
that are very active of course and have
similar type of challenges very often
for instance on the smart cities arena
we have very specific working groups but
we are represented by Mayor so we have a
president who is always coming from one
of the cities now it's Ghent and so we
have this very healthy link between
political level
and a technical level we are also
working with forums so we always attract
between fifty 250 technical experts and
politicians to our forums and as you see
and I was just speaking in the Agora
before mentioning that because of this
we also don't look at small City as a
technological thing that was going to
solve all of our problems but we have a
very holistic view and it's very easy
for us to bring together those
technicians experts in our forums and to
discuss cross-cutting issues because as
you see we focus on culture economic
development environment knowledge
society which covers a lot of related to
data management interoperability
standards all the areas mobility and
Social Affairs and all those areas are
always chaired by one of the cities so
there is always a vice-chair so if we
make sure that we really don't come just
with ideas but we rely on their
expertise and their ideas so you can see
here because I was preparing for smart
cities dimension to be presented here
that the knowledge society forum has
specific priority areas so we really go
in depth for instance discussing about
the data challenges that cities have
today or the interoperability or how do
they engage really with citizens and
that is a big value for most of the
cities I'm going to pass this one
because I would just like to highlight
that we have really polished this
statement so we are actually
representing cities in Brussels towards
the European institutions and when for
instance I was previously in D 450 it's
a little bit of commercial for our booth
that we have between lighthouse cities
we have sessions and somebody from
European agency came told me you are
really sharing you're not just talking
about sharing
you're really actually doing that so we
are sharing experiences we are sharing
knowledge we are really representing
interests of cities and we come up with
policy statements we dare to come with
new ideas and take the risk
sometimes that cities need to take today
also when we talk about procurement or
we talk about standards it's very
important that it's concrete enough for
the decision-makers to understand what
what has to be done but we also bring
together the right stakeholders one of
the channels that is recently helping us
is their return under for the European
Union we have an active role in that so
with the pact of Amsterdam of course it
started that cities so the urban voice
is more hurt by the European
institutions and you have a lot of areas
that we cover there I'm not going into
details because most of you probably
familiar with the urban agenda but the
most important thing is that we change
the space for cities because they are
heard now and working together with the
national governments they are working
together with the European Commission
and euro cities here takes a very
important role there and they have to
come with concrete action plan and then
we have also another role we are working
in the European innovation partnership
and there we focus on the business model
cluster actually we are leading on it so
we really work together with the
businesses we are helping the cities to
come with business models that are
working and that's one of the forums
another forum which I'm most familiar
with because my staff working on this
project sharing cities we are really
doing peer to peer exchanges between
cities so we help them with examples
that they can use back home so for
instance when when I go through Lisbon
we have a very good case there it's a
lighthouse city with Eva charging than
the other cities who are interested can
learn from their example and it's very
important
that this collaboration of lighthouse
projects and answering the moderators
question how do we network between
networks so universities myself actually
very much pushing for collaboration we
have a clay we have energy cities we
have a lot of networks in these projects
so that we make sure that the cities
themselves work together and learn from
each other on the smart cities arena
we have some replication activities that
I wanted to demonstrate as very good
examples that we heard like really
concrete cases on immobility or building
retrofitting or citizen engagement that
for instance were so told us it was
really interesting for them to go to
Milan and hear about how they engaged
with the residents of buildings because
they learn like new methodologies and
they can do the same at home so this is
our role and we also today I was
approached by nan who is in another
light house project saying you are
really sharing also you have a lot of
webinars opportunities that we can learn
from each other and we also focused on
measurement so the key performance
indicators and we also offer a lot of
work shadowing and other opportunities
for the cities so coming to the
measurement and monitoring we do a lot
helping cities also with their own
monitoring and measurement practices
thank you thank you very much
I guess last but not least we're gonna
hear from pal Lola Viera who's an deputy
executive secretary at FMP national
front of mayors I just wanted to
highlight it's for me it's been really
exciting to be on a panel with five city
networks with varying scales and I think
we've sort of from the order that we've
gone through we've heard from one of the
oldest ones that have been around for
ages and and with a vast number of
cities ball so we're kind of finishing
off on a very localized so
Paulo is gonna tell us about his work in
Brazil thanks very much good afternoon
everyone
I'm gonna make my presentation in
Spanish when premiere soon on or it's a
key a nasty grin event Oh smart city
what Congress eaten erased em they
copied us wanted Sudha because area
until them another hit for sad
commentary the Hood River per pet oh
poor me admit as soon que tengo por
about the sea shall you do the right
impact no you said Jesus whom Allah read
Adela ready to set a near la présence
Eddie just a rock is a sincere when
prevail
Africa no okay symbolism we bien el
trabajo que nosotros mo in la friends
national prophet okay la sesión de
brasília della invidious Allah yo
también la coopération su da sudah say
crazy
rapido kameena solo si quiere cigar
dae-ho via company ah de you know a comp
okay righto the Demi's to Sean Cahill
present Allah he understood that Ibrahim
no Brazil Tina Madison Community us in
Kaimuki entity no Sarah a partisan
traditional granny median is an a a a
like a Philippine one of a kind almost
come on Co Qaeda's Brazilian y el
congreso no in his smart CD poco para
saber tambien que la importancia a condo
habla de la coopération de su de
Mesquita nearing javelin Quinta la
importancia de los al Qaeda possible as
international see a cap in his mercy
decays own agenda más de contenido
a poder de su de reflection are sobre lo
que vienen aquí
it amending it Network see Syrian
agendas a continuity dormady
the advocacy Kemal a cop event trace its
macaca see trees agendas international
parallel a compartes
so callously you know akka it's his own
sake Brasilia Hakeem Barcelona he's
he'll hit us at a cigar anthem in
delicata win threesome born a los al
Qaeda de campinas a Palmas ke is some
panadol position a mentos lasted a
Brazilian in lost American diplomat good
it may have seen to be Muslim green
agenda consists of the table slaying it
is al Qaeda the triplets interested in
Bruce Ehlers que es una nueva Cooper -
this is sis representing closest to the
Europeans a key Claro que como Sun Tzu
da de grandes you dad is in a sling
grandma Mashhadi in brazil que trabajan
la coopération international laughs
rent is simple esta accompany ando a a
push and oh la la fortification desta
cooperation when a blow the advocacy
international el papa in vitro sequenza
qaeda's de de todo el mundo pokémon
tell a cop Vint you know in Paris the
Ricky see the Honam Asahi interesante
para los al Qaida's I presented Mira
J in Colorado Mesa Guido kun lovely
Dre's
leader is mundi Ali's loss loss
Presidente de los países they're just a
pero it shows only pragmatical joseki
who studies son came when a cell can
deliver de la serda to Cespedes so no
show me
los Presidente para venir Vatican a pair
of oars
no just hey Grayson spice unum Asahi
[Music]
aggressive soup ice into the tray los
los residentes para la kopwint EW no
para Keesha stiff they puddin verdadera
meant a snare a al tratado
liqueur de paris' a segment in partner
on idea delaying por la parte speciality
vitellozzo cada vez lingo in Lucinda
called papa Hermes la tercera de legacy
omaha grande para como estan simple muy
bien que pasol tada
my granddaddy Talia no I don't know but
it kind of a también por todo
movimiento como there Redskins Aquarian
taco de de de de la participation
political Estados Unidos también
tenemos la laguna dome we at IVA I'll a
copy of into you know the me and koona
participation whatever do Kadabra
selenium atom an atom a tea party Palace
agendas internationalist loss Okada
Brazil a neo a Booker mucho la relación
con las redes equalizer Genesis
accompany him blow do you wanna Shin the
key to be Mahalo al Qaeda and suicune la
una in Brazil veto $2 agencies kick it
in a action in Brazil village in saddle
on but a prolific us whose exchanges
juntos no process ie
importancia de Levante friction disturb
locally Brazilian colossal reads him
blow the como is tofu she owned a condo
habla Modell t-midi cooperation Sudha
Sudha he's en term in a Masonic
operation the trace i-news Masamichi say
Sudha Brazilian culture dolmas oh my
goodness
to be most a el apoyo al a bloody goal a
coordination a lop our senior day CJ you
in si projeto atomic una F&E; PD
Masamichi kale Association a soon all
the municipal Mozambique aeneas see su
that is intuitions belarusan t en este
tiempo rodrigo prep fa tokyo a saintly
era el cuñado the hello Sunita national
the Belarus aunty sources it's a McHugh
Nevada Dara Vista de amigos no a SSU
dominatus Theresa is here muchos inter
condos technicals even a sudah most
recurrent was a bikini accessibility
mean in Brazil a podrían is a survey
daddario cameos in la la política
pública de mozambique
intima como qualification or Bona the
supuesto participative Oh
so since I see a eunuch operation Keshav
amo mucho cariño por que sabemos que de
verdad you see more candles in less to
that most a bikini
Clara un poco methodology Eliza to
repair Adela substitution juntas a point
when enforcing Cooper us in methodology
the cooperation como esta I simply call
a participation our Arriba participant
Iranian coup Mokai desde Abajo mas una
una reunión entry technical cytosis
Claire para que una cooporation Tinga
Susi so some interest so that's
important still the loci do a poner el
cielo no say the city key they were
lucky a has a beer a office over the
Sailor Moon support author Sudha dosis
tenure laws al Qaeda delante del
processor lashavia del successfully
copulation but Romina un poco lo que
habla de de Bruce Ellis I used to Masuda
brasilia kia ora stony persona see como
a key in a lock operación de mozambique
racemosa miku stone is nice yo tambien
recuperación
con el apoyo de la europaea
give me parece que tienen vomit el mucho
sucesso Hasini
aleut mo viernes grave para tener Adela
su de Brasil a Akiko parent company
cidades europaeus
muchas gracias tell me no Sarah no
[Laughter]
[Applause]
I think I can open it up to the floor
but I'm burning with like two key
questions which I want to open to a few
of you I've got one a couple of you
touched on this idea of sort of data and
evidence base to empower cities and
mayors and in particular and I just
wonder if Rodrigo Shannon and Bernadette
you could just comment a little bit more
about how you think that process can be
streamlined what you mean specifically
around data and I know C 4 t
particularly works on this area of data
to sort of increase the evidence base
and decision making I just wonder if you
can provide a quick comment on those and
then I've got a question for the rest
I'm sure I can start very briefly I
think C 40 does to have a data-driven
approach where we try and support our
cities in using the best data that's
available to drive their climate actions
but I think we should not underestimate
for even the richest most well resourced
cities how challenging good data is and
access to that data is so for for us we
where initially I think we started a
process working with the Carbon
Disclosure Project and CDP and we still
are engaged in this annual reporting
from cities trying to help cities
improve the quality of that data but
then also help them understand how they
can use that data to drive the real
climate action in our case that they're
looking at is key so we're actually
stepping back more to a
capacity-building approach and then
seeing if there's a role we can play and
provide and bringing in private sector
organizations who have access to that
data and who can be real partners in
cities to help them overcome these
challenges because I just don't think
it's something you knispel governments
can take on on their own
these big companies were engaged in this
space to help them through this yes yes
well II Klee has worked a lot on data
especially attached also to climate
change and many times in partnerships
with c40 as well we have one of the
biggest platform on report in data local
data on emissions which is carbon and we
have we are be we are investing a lot
also on the tool we have to collect the
data from the cities we believe that the
cities should work in a multi actor
platform to get the right data to
fulfill the global platforms that we
allow us to qualify not only the local
policies on climate change but also the
dialogue between local governments and
national governments right now in Bonn
the they are writing what they call the
rulebook of the Paris agreement and our
task is to recognize the local
governments through evidence as key any
strategic implementation of the Paris
agreement what that means that means
that didn't the international finance
institutions and the national
governments should agreeing with that
provide resources not only financial
ones but also technical and so that the
policies the right policies should be
implemented so data again as I said and
I agree again with Shannon it's crucial
not only to improve the the
possibilities to draw public policies
but also to advocacy well in the
international system
[Music]
so at Euro cities we have well several
policy areas so I'm not going to
describe all of them how we manage data
and statistics but one of the things
that helped a lot is actually
storytelling so having raw data is one
thing and another thing to understand
the real challenges and try to fit into
your own context so one of the strengths
is is lying in that so storytelling
going into that really working together
in a peer-to-peer in the mentoring
relationship so that's one of the areas
and sticking just with the smart cities
area so we took very important role in
city keys which was four key performance
indicators for small cities helping
really cities to define where they want
to go and how they want to be measured
and we are now just starting to work on
a small city's information system which
is one of the projects of the European
Commission which helps cities to really
have better decisions on this area so
it's in this area it's very concrete
also through projects that we are
helping cities because you work very
well mentioning resources are scarce
finances are scarce
so if projects give opportunity for
cities that's helpful but networks have
an important role to share that kind of
information and support the replication
process also towards those who are not
so lucky to be part of those projects
I've got one more question and I will
open it up to the floor and I guess did
Joseph and Paulo I in the different
context that you've talked about you
touched on this issue around
capacity-building and I guess both in
terms of how long you CLG has been
around the number of members that you've
got within the organization I just
wonder if you can touch on a few
examples of successful capacity-building
at the local level and how that sort of
played out in you CLG and how you're
sort of using that for the newer
networks that are joining as a way of
sort of building on that momentum and
then similarly to you how that actually
has worked on a more regional and
countrywide context we call it
peer-to-peer action learning and in a
sense what we are using a model that
it's not our saying well I like very
much saying that you know the learning
modern models and the capacity building
models have changed quite a lot so I
like one that says 70% you learn in on
your job into daily job
20% is peer-to-peer learning and that
10% is going to more academic
universities and so on so so we have
this this 20% that's the peer to peer
learning but it's only possible when you
are able to link with the action going
on by a personal and it's a hard job to
learn and it's a hard job to do capacity
building so but I think this is a key
issue and and and our in our limited
resources what what we have found that
works is you know it's like the case in
in Brazil and Madagascar you know in
this type of exchanges that are based on
a real need that of for action okay if
not I think that
it's very difficult at this moment to do
the traditional capacity building which
there is a there is a space for that as
well but this is not the one that I
think all the networks here are more on
these exchanging of experiences and
changes of learning experience as an
option experiences so Bri is the theme
and they kept city building where a
block is no space o el lunes kapok we
simplify the frontier methodology ax
okay come on come on Rosa probably a on
Sokka Destin aqui para Lunas Esteban por
una visita technical in La Villita
técnicos canossian como la finta dozer
over Barcelona TV Echo Park hakuna
Della's experience muy conocida in
Brazil on a monument sabemos que muchos
al qaeda's when a connoisseur it con el
conocimiento de télévision flick
scenario presser cambio a pulsar que no
ha ganado
oh boy sir key a pedan para sus técnico
venir a Barcelona echo no sir come my
progeny de la experiencia no y yo soy
una me todo loggia cob la mode de lo que
pasó el lunes no Rossy cuando habla
modere projeto kilo most Rico copper a
co co Mozambique a con la si Cooper
Asakusa de oro pia a tenemos una Claro
un projeto kkd Claro como lo donde
queremos cigar no this is the most savvy
Maquis
I diferente form as the copper our key
siempre I kiss a comme si SLE need a
methodology Aparo sabemos que muchas
veces a muse in Sinhala me to Roger
Jimenez automatic operation a cake r ro
chaga a lo que habla medic observer in
tamiya arrow clark on sin tener la
rotura de un projeto
I'm just wondering if there are any
questions from the floret no we're great
I receive the Twitter from the group of
scientists just yesterday the second
warning for mankind and I'm just asking
about the sense of urgency that all the
networks are working with because you
know I think that we're at a tip point
where we don't know what future is for
our kids so excuse me for the language
why not the help say to the mayors we
have to bend cars I mean listen there
they are actually impacting our very own
existence and all the other means from
this were asking about your sense of
urgency in this regard yeah thank you I
I have a quite new one coming from bond
as well under the umbrella of the Global
Covenant of Mayors the mayor of Quito
and Latin America chapter of it where he
clay and c40 and new CLG together with
un app that together also the the French
national prophets the mayor of Quito
called commitment and we are calling it
call for action and he's going to
present it next 12 of the same December
in Paris at the macron sumit and it is
supposed to be global it is starting
regional but it is supposed to be global
they aim is because the mayors have not
limited responsibilities but limited
capacity in terms of finance and in
terms of technical resources just to
give you a number in Brazil 20 percent
of the revenues that comes from taxes
goes to mayors so 80 percent especially
at the national level and the regional
level so the mayor's have the sense of
urgency by
sometimes they don't have the means to
address it properly this call for action
aims to try to recognize the mayor's not
only at the NDC's mainframes at their
own countries but also at their
financial international financial
criterias trying to maybe this is not
the proper best word but trying to free
the mayor's to depend on national
approval to access international money
yes I think for us very much feeling the
sense of urgency as well and I would
agree that I think a number of our
mayor's do too especially when you're
looking at a also the really immediate
local impacts that are often related
with air pollution climate impacts you
know disasters that we've seen from
Mumbai to Houston this year this is real
intangible and and they're struggling so
I think financing is definitely key even
in the well resourced cities as we were
talking about earlier but then also
cities play a really big part and
non-state actors play a big part but
they can't do everything and so we are
trying to drive the national government
agenda to to help raise that sense of
urgency and that's why for c40 and again
with some of the organizations here
trying to get concrete commitments from
mayor's that we are we will track and we
will hold them to account in terms of
what buses are you buying from 20-25
because we've got to get some of these
vehicles off the roads and actually 2025
is probably too late so so it is this
idea of needing to work with businesses
of national governments and
demonstrating the real commitments and
the intention behind these leading
cities from all of our networks to make
this change happen because I I think our
mayor's are not alone in feeling the
pressure and the urgency are there any
other questions from the panel
I have a lot of questions but I might
free everybody from wanting to get to
other things for the evening I guess one
of the things I wanted to close on was
some of the points that we've touched on
today we've talked a lot about different
type ologies of city networks and the
role that they play in this sort of city
to city learning we've talked about
capacity building from a number of our
panelists we heard about the role of
mayors and and sort of concrete actions
and accountability and how we build that
through the networks I think that's
really important the point that you've
just touched on at this sense of urgency
I worked quite closely with c40 year and
and often I just find that whenever
we're in a meeting it's just like you
can feel the urgency and that I I think
it's built through the conversations
that that they're having with cities and
I think that's that isn't just building
the sense of urgency for mayors but it's
also building the sense of urgency
within the political teams within the
technical teams and sort of having that
trickled the across one of the other
things that I was we touched on but I
kind of want us to walk away with is we
talk a lot about cities and the impact
this has on cities but again I think
Bernadette touched on this but I want us
to go away and think a bit more about
this and how that kind of trickles down
to the citizens and what role does the
city networks have been giving also
voice not only to cities but but to
theirs to the citizens on that note I
think I want to thank our panelists one
more time for their time I felt
absolutely honored to be on this panel
with you guys and thank you for you guys
have a good evening
