Title: Trends and opportunities in smart city development

Ê
Subject: Data Governance

* Data & Tech
Abstract: 

Cities around the world are using different approaches to implement smart city projects, employing new technologies to leverage data and engage their residents. Yet these efforts should include policy recommendations regarding smart infrastructure, administrative guidelines and community engagement. What are the best practices and frameworks for the smart city development? What are the lessons to be learnt from the most successful early adopters?

Speakers: 
Ellis Juan
Jarmo Eskelinen
Mustafa Eruyar
Rajat Bansal
Jung Hoon Lee
Brian McGuigan

Conference: 
[Music]
good morning welcome to this a very
interesting panel on trends and
opportunities for smart city development
we have now the responsibility to wake
you up we have a very diversified panel
today coming from different sectors we
have professor John Hong Lee from the
University of John say from Seoul Korea
we have Jarvis kalanor NGO from UK a
future cities catapult
we have Mustafa Roger who's the manager
of the company that administrates and
develops the smart city for the city of
Istanbul and we have by omegan an IOT a
company Silver Springs network based in
the United States although Brian comes
from Edinburgh she has a couple of
concepts to share with you and to kick
off this panel at least for me my
experience in Latin America a smart
cities is that European space that uses
information technology and the Internet
of Things to be able to provide better
public services and more efficient
public services while at the same time
preserving the physical and
environmental assets for future
generations in this cities the citizen
is at the center of the whole planning
process a second thought is that this is
a process
you don't meet great from traditional
city management to a smart city
management from Friday to Monday over
the weekend it takes a while it's a
process that you need to plan you need
first to have your infrastructure
connectivity but more in place your
fiber optics your sensors your ATVs and
so on and then you need to also choose
and start with the easier applications
the ones that have a higher impact in
the shorter term so you leave your
complex applications like you know solid
ways like to know when the garbage tank
is going to be half or full and you
start with things like changing the
light bulbs in the public lighting
to let technology so that can give you
some energy savings that you can use to
continue with the process of
transitioning to a smart city train of
management so with this we're going to
give the word to Professor John Lee from
University of John say professor
what if you could
good back
well fine okay no one is born
it's not my slide slightly
no it's not
[Applause]
well I tried to begin my speech without
my slide but I hope that it will come
out soon my I've been this is a it's
good to be back it's my fourth time that
I've been here in smart city World
Congress and I've been doing research on
the how the different cities actually
fostering their innovations throughout
the world and this year that I
comparative study of ten cities has been
done
not again so we're gonna change the
order and we're gonna have Jarvis Cardo
system
apparently that technology's not as as
smart as we thought
it's stuck now
yeah that's it is it sorry that we are
changing the order back we start with
this your presentation okay okay
so I'm back so I've been doing this
research for the last five years I'm
good to just shoot a very flavor of the
what's the trend and development in in
smart city right now these are these
densities we've been analyzing we've
been analyzing 676 services with the app
services and infrastructure and we
looking at is the kind of establishing
the open innovation environment here
that we can see the trends of the civic
engagement becoming very very important
asset for the fostering the Smart City
innovation along with open data so the
from simple participation to cool
creations there we see about 10% of the
our analyzed services actually are
providing these kind of services with
the citizen engagement I think it's
going to be more and more will be
enquiries within the open data
I think the is not issue of the quantity
anymore I saw issue of the how actually
data is actually well made and used by
there are other stakeholders for the
creating the new services and business
model unless in citizen experience
through the securing security in the
service diversity and the
interoperability becoming very important
here is the order densities the service
diversity you can see the transportation
is the most richest area to the of the
services with the Intel probability as
well as be some other sectors are
following as well there may be the more
more services will be diverse throughout
some of a leading smash cities around
the world again there will be the
prevalence of the new technologies
especially in AI are comforting with the
food industry revolutions and also the
changing in the citizen behavior
according to the more greener as well
here the we analyzing or about 42% or
11.8% are actually doing IOT and big
data or implementations and in energy
and environment sectors where is the IOT
and
I will be becoming more dominant next
year I think they're going to be more
frequent speaking about the services
based on the AI where is some of our
urban sustainability that a lot of
infrastructures are looking at the
service types in energies and the
environment area that most of our
infrastructure based services but this
service will be actually more handover
to those users and the user can actually
use this kind of a sustainability
services station to be using the carbon
dioxide of course there will be creating
the expanding or open innovation
ecosystems also though they're able
public and private partnerships with the
city to city collaborations here is the
global living labs and the startup
studies
in Asia the Living Lab becoming very
important asset to actually driving this
mass it innovations there are a lot of a
small city collaboration partnerships
are occurring throughout this
collaborative platform
I'm sure the innovation exchange program
will be launching soon with coping with
sharing the platform and sharing the
data with among the different cities as
well one aspect of very important aspect
is the infrastructure integrations with
the small city governance in the future
building the inter profitable the
data-driven city becoming us so
attentions on the small city world we
see a lot of cities this year especially
to actually integrating the urban
platform and providing the civic
platform to engaging with a connecting
with the more and more facilities and
devices we are going to see the more
high level of network effects with the
increasing escape allottee
to deploy in the of this mass city IOT
network and such as the other kind of
the networks will be also coming to the
create in the more high level of network
connectivity also lastly police there
are small city components issues that we
need to actually take care there are
some organizations are some cities
actually doing the leading dedicate
organization to force and Asthma
innovations and this leadership
coming very important also the
deregulating and also creating the
innovation free zones to actually for
fostering this innovation becoming so
essential element of the next generation
of smart city as well you can see all
this report in get smart city in this
report from the following website and I
hope the look for text should have more
discussions and transient and
development of small city thank you
thank you professor very disciplined
with time and now we finally have
Journal from future cities catapult in
UK Germany's yours
hopefully soon okay very good fine
so I'm Jana mascara and chief innovation
integrity officer of the future city is
catapult in the UK we are uk-based
innovation company with the remit to
develop the sector of advanced urban
services the new term which you see
there is kind of smart cities plus so
it's the we understood that smart cities
alone actually doesn't cut it you need
to expand to areas of planning
architecture creative industries etc to
in order to crack the challenge which is
the city basic fact
well cities are the most enduring human
achievements think about that city of
Rome is still there Empire of Rome
vanished quite a while back already
cities tend to stay around and I think
that is one of the challenges which we
see in the smart cities domain when we
want to retrofit cities because City is
fundamentally a layers upon layers upon
layers of unfinished plans no city is
ever finalized novel is it is ever ready
and if it is built at once it's a boring
place we like cities which are imperfect
and awkward and have these layers of
legacy and that's the has been the
problem of the first wave of smart
cities and one of the things which we
now see is a greenfield investing models
for new cities are diverting from
brownfield investing models so existing
cities need to have different business
models opposed to cities which somebody
just starts to build from the scratch so
I think the new trends of Bill Gates
buying a plot of land in Arizona and
wanting to do a smart city there it's
actually valid way to do things when you
I in the business of building new cities
new places but it might be far more
problematic approach for existing places
for the cities which are already out
there one of the challenges of
organization of course is that yes it's
a mega trend word is urbanizing for
but it doesn't open eyes equally so we
have our leading cities the london's of
the world the new york's then we have
lots of cities which actually become
indie pop you list and that is also a
smart city trend an urban trend that
cities are losing people and lastly we
have cities which are only growing
without bringing better quality of life
to people who move there the
fast-growing cities of the developing
countries the the Rio de Janeiro's of
the globe and I think the key to
sustainable smart cities must be
solutions which can be tailor-made for
these different types of cities there is
no one solution or one approach to do it
right but there are some things which
are in common despite all of that and
that's the way we live in cities which
has just been changing lately that's
that's an event in Helsinki my old
hometown and it looks like people
selling food in a park looks like an
analogue event it's called restaurant
day and actually it's a digital event
it's a digital innovation because it's a
day of pop-up restaurants last time it
was counted 1,500 pop-up less
restaurants around Helsinki and the only
way to find those is to use your phone
and the app there to end up in some
random park somewhere where somebody is
selling cakes and that's the way the use
our cities we are in a search mode all
the time and that transform the physical
infrastructure if you're in a search
mode in platforms you don't need any
local shops anymore you can buy Accardo
food at 6:30 in the morning they bring
you your groceries and Tesco is
suffering local shops are suffering
because they can't beat that competition
anything which can be platformer big co2
platforms will be going to platforms and
the main challenge with that is the
challenge of speed that's the main
challenge cities are tackling with we
have just analyzed about 20 global
cities and the
much of the strategies in our global
review it's available as of from
yesterday and there are multiple ways to
do it
you had to top down you can do bottom up
you can actually have a smart city
without a strategy and one of the
leading ones Amsterdam doesn't have as
much of a strategy they still are
considered to be one of the best but the
ones which seem to crack it they are all
able to deal with the challenge of speed
and there are some ways with with which
that can be tackled so why is it the
challenge that's because digital
innovations grow at an exponential pace
when they take off I mean think about
Airbnb envision you birthday went around
just a few years back in a city scale
five years is a short time to turn
things around in a digital domain it's
they're like dog years you know four
equals one normal year it's several
decades of technologies ago and when
these digital disruptions crash to our
cities cities have a tough time dealing
with it and the cities which are the
best smart cities other ones which do it
well and I close with some of the
examples of how what what they do what's
in common first of all they work through
experimentation cities are traditionally
driven by strategies policies and
regulations that's the classical way of
running a city you build your strategy
and start to implement it and that turn
into 832 policies however that's a very
slow route to impact there's other route
to impact which companies use which is
if you have an idea build the first
prototype test it and if it works then
scale it and best smart cities are
working actively and consciously with
urban experimentation trying things out
in practice example from Belfast where
we we have worked with the city which is
their smart city strategy framework yes
it's a multi-year framework but the
trick of succeeding in that this
particular project was that we had
ongoing experiments
while we did the framework with Belfast
greats forecasting over there was a
challenge which they had the city
couldn't collect their business rates
the property taxes only seventy four
percent of those they lost millions
every year what they did was to open the
challenge to data analytics companies
for innovative procurement competition
and they got back two companies one is
there enquiring minds in the pilot phase
they brought home three hundred and
fifty thousand pounds of extra income of
a project which cost the city one
hundred thousand pounds so three times
profit from a short pilot and now they
are turning it into a inter product
common elements in these cities first of
all they combine top-down bottom-up
example there is the participative
budgeting of Paris city of Paris is
using five percent of the budget
localized to boroughs so that people
there can vote propose and vote
initiatives which then are realized with
Paris funding and the trick this that
Paris gives a promise that this will
happen when you join second they use
openness as a competitive advantage hope
my current home damp London has the
London datastore it's an old initiative
and that strategy of data store has
turning from open data to shared data
when you share the value and use it as
an asset for the city fundamentally
meaning that you can do contracting at
the base of the when you when you
release the data and and also
consciously avoiding technology lock in
situations where your data is held
captive by anyone one company openness
goes both ways
third they understand that best
innovators probably don't work for the
city
no offense that's just how it is I mean
in any city you have far more much
bigger amount of innovative people
working somewhere else than in city city
administration unless everybody works
for the administration that's probably
not true so uh active in
the collaboration is also defining
factor example there is my old totem
again Helsinki conceal of developers
program which brings every year hundreds
of developers together with the city to
crack open challenges and every year
launches new companies which are there
to help the city to offer better
services and lastly they use urban labs
to connect the changemakers Copenhagen
solutions lab as an example
Amsterdam models as an example New
York's of his office of data analytics
they are labs which are reach out to
change makers in the administration and
in the companies and bring them together
because change makers often are alone in
their organisations they fell feel
deserted and you can bring their
brainpower together and to increase it
through using a lab based model and that
can be built into a standardized
approach to do cities in which you
select and bespoke components which fit
use it is just the right for your city
that's it for now thank you thank you
general
we're not gonna have Mustafa Edwige our
he's the smart city coordinator from the
city of Istanbul to share with us some
good stories about how you guys doing in
Istanbul thank you ladies and gentlemen
my name is Mustafa forum is back
Istanbul I will talk about big smart
Istanbul roadmap today
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
okay
my company spark is an affiliate company
of Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality it
is responsible for developing smart city
technologies and wanting to smudge the
office of Istanbul so I'm representing
now city of Istanbul today to you
Istanbul is at crossroads of Europe and
Asia if with 15 million population it's
the biggest city on Europe and also
because of that population Istanbul has
many challenges because of demanding
population especially on mobility energy
environment so for this demand we
develop smart systems and services as an
example from environment invest
management collection center monitors
each point of waste collection to the
disposal and recycles as energy floating
solar power plant on one of the lake of
Istanbul and other economy R&D; centers
from global companies to support
startups at Living depth which are run
by municipality of course we do not
forget the children for them we develop
dream cart as an IOT cart and you can
access from an open data platform to
this cart to motivate children
programming discard in mobility attacks
management platform I taxi promotes taxi
healing system also taxi cameras and
panic buttons for safe driving also IOT
taxi cab for collecting data from all
over the Istanbul with 17,000 taxis
including all taxis in Istanbul for
safety we have traffic enforcement
systems with 10 types of enforcement
from speed red-light shaded area
violation
also we have mobile traffic enforcement
systems
it's an equipped vehicle with sensors to
detect violations also we have a call
center for all complaints of citizens of
Istanbul called one five three call
center you can call this Center for
every complaints of Istanbul but we have
a lack of collaborative stakeholders and
interoperable technologies like all
cities like my java speakers talked
about we need a unique strategy we need
interoperable technologies among smart
systems and services it is the
motivation of big smart Istanbul now so
how to become big smart Istanbul now we
have smart systems but we have to be
become big smart so we have a motivation
to call it big smart to become big smart
Istanbul we have first node we have to
have not the global with literature
review so we have to know the ourselves
with current state analyzes so we have
to benchmark this with developing
Istanbul smart ste index with the
motivation of this index we have to have
an one vision among all stakeholders and
strategies and just one world map of
Istanbul smarty to have inter probable
systems we have to have an system
architecture for all systems so we
choose to work with global companies at
this stage we worked with first and
Sullivan at benchmarking we worked with
action for the current state analyzes
and we are working with vision we are
working with Ernst and Young for the
vision and strategy and roadmap and now
we are working with Cisco for the smash
the platform
for the literature review we cause the
most important smashed indexes all over
the world we choose 50 cities from this
indexes and according to our parameters
we prioritize these teas to have 10
besties
we call it the Champions League of the
cities and in the current state
assessments we have over 200
stakeholders we met with all these
stakeholders and we analyzed their smart
systems and we have a big report about
current state assessment so we benchmark
with this Champions League with Istanbul
we have the Istanbul smarty index with
our own defines indicators with 60
indicators we within all pillars of
smart city and we understand that we
have a progressive way to be big smart
to be big smart we have to have an one
integrated smart division for this we
developed the purpose vision and values
and mission of the small city and to
have a motivation for the citizens or
also for the runners of the city we
combine this as the manifest of smash
city Istanbul we determine our
strategies the KPIs initiatives and
roadmap projects with persona and
fortunately analyzes of citizens so we
have to have to listen the citizens to
soar better to them at the end to
achieve one integrated ste platform to
have operable systems we have to have
and smash the architecture now we are
working on this architecture with Cisco
so lastly I want to invite to our
worstest Congress in 2018 to have
meetings with you and thank you for your
attention thank you mr. pham very
entertaining now we're gonna hear from
Bryant on this new latest technologies
about G and how to use radio frequencies
[Music]
hi there everyone so thank you for for
being here today my name is Brian
McGuigan I'm from the company Silver
Spring networks and gonna run through
some trends that we're seeing really
having an impact in the way cities are
making the transition to become smarter
so for those that don't know Silver
Spring Networks we provide the
communication and data platforms to
cities and utilities to connect them to
all the IOT devices that they have so
that's to connect monitor and control
all of the assets that they they care
about the company is about 15 years old
and we've been lucky enough to work with
hundreds of cities and utilities across
the world in total we connect over 27
million devices and we manage huge
amounts of data this is not connecting
laptops and mobile phones but instead
connecting all the sensors and devices
and controllers that that cities and
utilities are using to develop these new
new systems and we've often focused on
those applications that really require
and and benefit from high reliability
and resilience we actually very high
levels of performance in the system
typically 99.9 percent connectivity to
all of these assets so when we talk
about smart city I guess we're working
now with with cities across the world to
connect a whole range of different
applications
everything from intelligent street
lighting to traffic management systems a
large number of Smart Grid applications
that cross over into the city domain
environmental sensors etc and and we see
that every new city we work with this
list grows and grows as every city as
different requirements so to write today
I'm going to run through four trends
that we see having a big impact these
aren't necessarily new trends but I
think they're maturing in a way that is
actually making them much more effective
and useful for the cities that are that
are adopting these methods so first of
all we're seeing the kind of the growth
and success of open ecosystem models so
the the smart city that was perhaps
envision 15 years ago when when large
ICT companies proposed this to cities
kind of took the view that a company
would come in and deliver a smart city
in a box for a city and often those
companies would would take the view that
they would build a series of
applications for the first city and
invest there and then be able to sell
those solutions to 15 more cities and
that's kind of how the model would work
but but that quickly fell over because
city number two never really wanted the
same as City number one and that could
be because of legacy requirements it
could be because of local startups that
they want to be involved in the in the
equation or the solution and so instead
we see systems that are more open and
invite partners to work together and
collaborate being much more effective
and clearly an analogy that this relates
to the mobile industry we know that ten
years ago this was dominate order 15
years ago dominated by providers that
had very trusted technology and but they
relied entirely on in-house development
and therefore innovation was relatively
slow and incremental and they've been
now completely overtaken by providers
who enable others to develop on top of
their platform enabling I'm you know we
all have the same phone in our pocket
but there's a hundred different things
for each of us based on our lifestyle
and our requirements and that model I
think fits the smart city market much
better because it allows cities to
evolve and respond to the specific
challenges they have and linked to this
is is up kind of pushed awards open
standards and again this isn't a new
concept and but we are seeing this
coming through but you know we're often
asked as a standards based organization
we're asked what which standard do you
follow and the reality is there are
hundreds of standards that matter in
this space and in every in every cases
where their commitment to having those
one example if we look at smart lighting
that was referenced earlier in the
introduction if you look at the
end-to-end components that are required
to enable a smart lighting system you
could buy these 10 15 years ago from
suppliers but you would be you would
have to buy every component from them
and you would be locked into them for
the duration of your use of that system
and what we've seen know is that
standards have emerged across the
end-to-end system that allow you to
build a solution with the parts that you
want and the suppliers you want allowing
different companies to interoperate and
allowing flexibility over time if
requirements change or or providers
change strategy so that that is I think
really helping accelerate the adoption
of these systems one city that's a good
example of is Glasgow in the UK who ran
the future city demonstrator three years
ago which included bringing a whole
range of systems together with an
underlying ethos that there would be
open sharing of data and integration
between these systems including an open
data platform an operation center and
for demonstrator site sites we provided
a smart lighting demonstrator which
showed how street lighting could enable
different sensors and systems to bring
data together including traffic
monitoring data air quality and noise
and that was provided by a whole range
of different vendors who collaborated
and use these open standards to build
the complete solution and ultimately
share that into the city's open data
platform and they're now really looking
at that as a platform that they can
build future innovations with and extend
the functionality to link in with
emergency services and other systems so
the second trend is that cities are
really working hard to find ways to
break down and work across silos and
sharing can mean sharing anything from
obviously budgets but just sharing
information on the problems that the
departments are facing projects are a
running business case development and
you know creating that crossover and
communication between departments is
obviously recognized as fundamental to
allowing cities to evolve and cities are
taking a wide range of different tactics
here many are forming as was mentioned
kind of dedicated innovation areas the
urban ICT arena in Stockholm for example
which brings together a range of
providers and university partners and
the city representatives to experiment
and share information in a way that will
help foster innovation others are
perhaps being more pragmatic Paris for
example saw that they had a requirement
in peril
for a street lighting control system and
a traffic control wireless system and
they chose to combine those tenders
together knowing that by running one
tender they would arrive with something
more flexible than if they treated them
separately I know they see that they're
able to use the wireless network and the
software platform to connect up a wider
range of infrastructure and they
ultimately see that as a tool for long
term innovation the third trend is I
think cities are know recognizing that
becoming smart isn't a one-time fix but
instead a change in process and I'm kind
of an evolution to respond to the
shrinking of the technology cycle that
that means the innovation is happening
readily and there's more recognition
that we don't know what the requirements
or possibilities will be in two years
time and that means systems are being
planned with the ability to upgrade them
over time and being viewed as something
that will change and evolve and less fix
them previously cities are having to
work hard to change the relationship we
have with technology providers and
suppliers of services in the way the
contract and procure those to make sure
that they can evolve as efficiencies
improve etc one example of that we're
working with the city of Copenhagen to
connect 20,000 new streetlights across
the city with the initial major target
of reducing energy and carbon but quite
quickly after deployment Lee realized
well actually they could use this system
to improve cycle safety and so by
partnering with the traffic the the
pride of the traffic management system
we've been able to build a system or
they've in fact been able to build a
system that links the traffic and the
lighting to increase the lighting at
junctions for cyclists with an aim of
making them more visible to reduce
accidents that said we think that
certain aspects will need to have a of
central planning aspect to be successful
I don't think everything can just evolve
freely security is a great example and
we are seeing increasing incidence of
IOT systems being compromised and I
think that will only increase as we
as we see more and more IOT systems
being deployed and security really is
something that has to be planned upfront
and applied to each application in
parallel consistently to make sure that
the overall the system is secure and
it's often said but why would someone
choose to hack a weather station or a
street lighting system or some other and
perhaps innocent system and the truth is
people will find a reason even if just
for their own entertainment so the final
the final trend is again that we're
seeing citizens really firmly being put
at the heart of many of these leading
initiatives and that can be exploited in
their needs again if we talk to
Copenhagen about their street lighting
program one aspect they always highlight
that they're proudest of is that after
awarding the contract they walked every
street in the city with the provider
they'd selected to see well what else
could we do for these local communities
for these retailers for these residents
to use lighting to improve the system
rather than just the energy saving and
that identified a range of other
benefits cities are changing the way
they communicate with their citizens
through more dynamic interfaces and the
reference earlier of Paris you know
allocating budget to actually target
prioritized applications I think we'll
see growing and even the the kind of who
qualifies as a citizen we're seeing
evolving we're involved in the largest
intelligent lighting program in the
world in Florida this is half a million
lights being upgraded and yet within
that enormous program we spend a huge
amount of time talking about seven
hundred and thirty seven of those which
happened to be in turtle breeding areas
the problem here being that hatchlings
follow the moon to find the sea when
they're born and if the street lighting
is too bright they instead follow that
and end up on the road which doesn't end
well and so in this case they were able
to build a special application that
would give the environmental services
the ability to program in the dates of
turtle breeding in that particular area
and control the lakes accordingly so we
see that every city is having these
bespoke requirements that need tailoring
the final thought is that we are seeing
a kind of ongoing view the cities have
to be fun you know very few are
interested in living in the dystopian
view of futuristic cities that we see in
many sci-fi films and you know a great
example of this is one a project
playable cities initiative who in this
case hijacked a number of streetlights
around the streets of Bristol and
replaced the lights with the projector
and a camera that would record the
shadows of people to walk by and then
replay them for the next Paris in the
past and what they found was that as
well as creating a lot of confusion
initially they then quickly found that
people were communities were gathering
in these dark alleys that previously
been quite uninviting and playing games
and dancing and really really changing
the perception of what this
infrastructure could do for those cities
and what role it should play so that is
everything today so thank you very much
and looking forward to questions thank
you Brian
very clear it before we get to our last
speaker we're gonna have probably time
for two or three questions a the
application system is not working today
so I encourage you to use the micro and
now we have my advanced AI from the city
government seed of rightful India
treasurer if you could make it in eight
minutes really appreciate it
[Applause]
a very warm good morning I'm Raj Bansal
from the city of Raipur in Chhattisgarh
state of India I'm sure all of us would
know a little bit about India India is a
country which right now has the second
largest telecom connectivity and the
internet not with number of Internet
users in the world and we when we talk
about smart cities in India we don't
talk about technology we talk about
people just to give you a little
background about the place from where I
come from I'm the Commissioner of raipur
city which is around has a population of
around 1.6 million which is
approximately the same as Barcelona the
size of the city as well is the same as
Barcelona but in terms of population in
India the city is around 45th in rank so
we are talking about a large number of
people here and being a democracy being
the kind of a chaotic democracy as we
call it as someone might have visited
also so being a democracy like that the
main challenge in our smart city
projects is not technology it's the main
challenge is the people whether the
people are able to use that technology
whether they are able to connect to that
technology whether they start finding
value in that technology so when we
started the smart city initiative in
India in raipur per se we talked about
people powered approach in this in our
Smart City project we have projects like
infrastructure projects hard core
infrastructure projects which are
redevelopment involves a large number of
shifting of people then we have core
technology projects I TMS the
surveillance system projects the traffic
management projects and a mixed bag of
all these projects but the main
challenge that we had was how are people
going to receive these projects and how
are people going project so we started a
kelabra collaborative approach wherein
people became our focus points in even
in our infrastructure project we started
taking our drawings and our designs to
the people started taking their feedback
and used a collaborative model using
open-ended
platforms internet-based platforms for
their inputs and then those designs
which were then finalized through
people's inputs then actually came in to
ground
that that is the way in which we could
solve problems of projects which were
stuck still still in 20-25 years so to
give you another example we also have
experimented so to say with technologies
like geo tagging technology we in in our
effort to make our city green we wanted
to plant more trees as you know India so
we spend lakhs and millions of rupees
every year to plant more trees where do
where the trees goes it's a question for
all of us but how do we monitor that and
how do we more than monitoring how do we
make people sort of own that tree so
that the sustainability of that plant
that tree is is taken care of so using
that that kind of a thought in us we
went for a geo tagging approach for our
trees and our plants we told the people
that you can take the plants for free
from the government you plant a plant
them wherever you want just geo tag them
and then later on after a few months we
then got a drive created in which a
person has to go back to the plant and
take a selfie with the plant so with
that little little ownership that we
created to a throw very my new
technology we could actually achieve a
lot of our objectives and more
importantly we achieved a sense of
ownership in our citizens so this is the
kind of smartness that we are talking
about in our cities the work that we do
work we do as a government but using
technology to connect to the people to
actually connect the bridge between the
government and the people so I'm here
the reason why I don't have a
presentation here is because I don't
have many jargons here I am actually the
consumer of the smart city technologies
that most of you are interested in or
are working to produce so as the
consumer I would want technology which
helps me the government and especially a
government like the governments in India
where the system is still a little
feudal where there is a lot of gap
between the the people and the
government it's not like the Western
countries where the government and the
people are much more in an engagement
perspective so as a consumer of these
technologies I would want you to come up
with solutions where I can
use that technology to help connect with
my people better and inculcate a sense
of ownership amongst those people so in
our smart city program our approach is
to create a more ripe or a sense of my
iPods so when we do that when we make
each citizen feel that the city is his
or hers that is the time when we can
actually make a smart city so that is
our belief and thank you thank you for
giving me this opportunity thank you I
get very disciplined okay so we have
here two representatives from two very
large cities Istanbul and tripod we have
a professor from the University of John
say in civil we have a think tank from
UK and we have a private sector company
provider of IOT solutions we have time
for three questions or four please use a
microphone oh you have something here
sorry okay so the system was working
after all with a question for Gemma
what do you think is the best business
model for greenfield smart cities well
that's a that's a tough one best mr.
Greenfield smart cities hmm I would aim
for uh for the stage public-private
partnerships so about what I I think
which dangerous ideas that if you strike
a deal for 30 years we don't want
provider for anything nowadays it's a
bad deal for the for the city so but I
think we still that frequent Greenfield
of course is the amount of capital which
is needed so any sort of a life life
cycle based staged public-private
partnership model can be the one which
is sustainable for for that and which
doesn't pretend that it knows where the
city ends which kind of has the check
points possibility to change direction
and prioritize differently over the
timespan of the project Thank You Jo
any other questions using the microphone
if not since we have some time is still
I'm going to give the rest of the panel
a one minute one minute and a half just
tell us in your own opinion what is the
most important trend that you're seeing
today in the smart city development and
shared with the audience happy yeah
thank you having a comparing with the
ten cities I think the most kind of
trendy is the actually we are actually
talking to the data-driven smart city as
well so in order to creating this useful
data of course there are you need to
have a very integrated platform so in
order to build it this platform
obviously you need to have a very good
governance systems that the department
with a different Department with
different agents you have to be
interconnected as well so based on this
interconnected kind of infrastructures
and along that side increase the network
effects of the course you need to have a
private sector engagement reserves the
citizen engagement to actually
developing the new kind of services as
well so I liked what when Jeremy was
mentioning about the urban
experimentation things that there Laurel
Korean cities and trying out these kind
of experimentations and there will be
the feasible business mode that we need
to take away there will be the kind of
regulations the
laws and policies that we need to
regulate as well so there are some
theory that kind of testbed or
innovation freeze earnings that may be
required for that this next generation
of a small city thank you Mostafa one
single trend
as I said in my speech the collaboration
of organizations and technologies ISM is
very important I think in the next 10
years the cities will develop its own
smarts the indexes to benchmark itself
and also collaboration all organizations
to achieve one vision because each
organization has its own vision so it's
having some interferences each other so
one vision one road map is very
important for also interoperable systems
we have to have one platform Portsmouth
City I think it's very important to have
interpolation all the systems thank you
Thank You mr. Farr Brian I suppose one
trend that I'm seeing in relation to
this event itself I think is very
positive over the last few years there's
been a it's very encouraging to see the
growth and representation of cities and
countries attending and and taking a
space in the floor here and I think that
is very helpful for us as providers to
get better picture on on what matters to
these different cities and I think it's
also helping to really reinforce this
view that the smart a smart city won't
be delivered by one provider or indeed
just by large providers it will be
including medium-sized and startups as
well and I think the presence and
promotion of those companies at the city
level is very important to that thank
you Brian right yet I think the main
challenge today for us is to use the
data that the government already has and
use it in a way to that the bridge
between the government and the people is
divided is gapped and also the the
communication that the government has
with the people should be customized
using that data and the data analysis
therein so the kind of course the kind
of communication I have as a government
that should that should make people
believe in me so that kind of the trust
deficit that we have in specially in the
urban India that can actually be
addressed through the data we have and
that is the challenge we have right now
thank you right and one last comment
German
need to mention something which hasn't
been mentioned here yet which is the one
city is not the market so I think one of
the trends we will which we will see is
the networks of city cities joining
forces which is kind of a demand driven
development of a larger marketplace than
than one city
there has been supply driven development
but should be also demand driven that
supply and demand meet in the middle
thank you you've been very disciplined
audience we had a very disciplined panel
please join me in a round of applause
for this disabled panel
[Applause]
