Title: Common Standards Boosting the Digital Transformation of Cities
 
Subject: Data Drive cities 

* Data AndTech

Abstract: 

Data analysis and ICT are improving the way cities operate and creating stronger civic connection with citizens. Yet they also bring some complexities. While there is a different route for each community, a common language is essential in providing better services. What are the standards to be put together to fulfill each city’s vision? How to ensure that common standards are adopted to effectively respond to urban challenges and enable replicability?
Speakers: 

Dimitri Zenghelis
Miguel Gamiño
Sajeesh Kumar
Theo Blackwell
Tim Turitto 
Martin Powell

Conference: 

good morning and welcome it's good to
see a packed room on the first day of
the smart cities Expo here in Barcelona
my name is Martin Prince Cove I'm your
moderator and host for today and I'm
quite excited to be here with the
colleagues to be discussing one of I
think the key if not the key to
unlocking the values and overcoming the
challenges in this digital
transformation so as you I believe would
all agree being here the smart cities
Expo cities actually have a crucial role
especially when we decide what works and
what doesn't work
so before we go into any more detail
please come come to the forefront I
think there's still a couple of seats
seats left let me just give you the
practical context for our one-hour
session today you all have the app right
so this is an interactive session we
will get some interventions from our
speakers and then we would like to have
a conversation with you so please ask
questions using the ask and vote system
or you can just essentially raise your
hand and walk to their sides where their
microphones we can still do like the the
non digitally facilitated version so
this is my ambition that we can have
some key positions from the speakers and
then a conversation because that's
actually what we need right we don't
need more standards you all know you
know all the gazillion standards that
are out there trying to croc what is a
city what is a region what is the
relationship between the big global
digital dynamics and the action on the
ground the local economic development
the identity
the connections between regions nation
states we have it all so the task for
the standards should be to unlock all
the potential that is in there without
completely removing all the fabric or
the cultural the geographic the economic
fabric that cities and regions and
societies they manifest so I'm very
happy to invite our speakers on stage so
please they may have son son there mara
Maya please come on stage we have here
David osmotic from Etsy Saco from NIST
Tilo from Roland Berger and just so I
don't forget anyone kwang-ho
from the fire foundation so I think a
perfect line up when you want to talk
about who will come together to make
this happening its global it's from the
demand side so the Civic side the city's
it is from the supply side from the
companies clearly the idea is to create
a market but on which terms and for whom
so let's have some positions here excuse
me and let's have a conversation
thank you very much and let's welcome
onto the stage the mayor of Santander
please
[Applause]
poor boy Werner Diaz muchisimas gracias
a poor our loss la oportunidad Selassie
de santander de estar en este press
tears open le de poder tambien explicar
nuestra experiencia de ciudad y como
alcalde suppose manifest our mishear tow
des conocimiento de la tecnología
Anabella street Ament a tecnico pero si
la seguridad de que puedo a port are a
defender el papel que los gobierno slow
calles tienen en el desarrollo de
cidades intelligente sell pop el que
tenemos la transformación digital la
conciencia fiown a low speed add a nose
también y ella optimisation del oro
cursos oh la mejora de la calidad de
vida de los Santander Dinos que es lo
que NOS lo que no so Koopa tambien me
gustaría habla es un poco de Mesilla
das en primer lugar Santander es una
ciudad que está al Norte de d'espagne
es una ciudad se cos Terra que estaban
ya de por una de las leyes mess mia's
del mundo al prestigious okhla Cunha
comment' a / 10 Sen Tian cuenta cidades
Cuyo plan a strategy co nos dicen que
son dos lo se pilaris fundamentals
gracias Odo's las oportunidades de
negocio una es la innovation la otra la
cultura con la innovation hemos
intentado a estar en un momento de
crisis economic an Espanola estaba
cambion dole Modelo productive oh no
somos posición Oddo como la tour
laboratorio or bono
y como do busca Mo's la mejora en los
servicios alsa da da no tambien vamos a
mencionar los aspectos caved in da la da
fiown destined raise abierto x' FM
playas ando los desde lambie toda la sto
no allistic adel acid add a comparison
con los datos P up tenemos de la ciudad
Santander como digo es una few death and
donde los sonidos como smurfy t.server
Montana Lana dos mil EF gracias Aldous
Arroyo del proyecto que tiene como
objetivo crear una infrastructure ax
única para la experimentation a par at
stre valid our technology Isuzu
soluciones del internet de las cosas en
el ambi toda la ciudad es la experiencia
smurfette inácio nelio goes mildy air
con una Fortaleza junto con la una de
Universidad de Cantabria donde NOS
posición ahmo's como laboratorio Urbano
yen donde poco a poco introduce emos la
tecnología
en los diferentes servicios esto NOS de
una obtain sein de datos nos da una Rick
essa te conocí Mentos pero es cierto ya
dia de hoy estan totalmente a lado son
vertical A's
el reto que tenemos actualmente El Paso
que tenemos actualmente es ella
plataforma es Marcy t ake we're a Mose
integra todos los servicios queremos
tener una una Co repository o de datos
para que me Deonte los cuadros de
contrôle podemos ayudar Oh nos podemos
ayudar assess E&R; estas decisiones a dia
de la ciudad Santander como Diigo como
laboratorio or bono somos capacity a
actualmente de tener permeabilities M
Barrios M pocos pero en varios de estas
vertically spora hemp lo tenemos un
proyecto el synchronicity donde su Mo's
capacitor dispiay del tráfico ro dah
doe infusion de tres para metros ya que
pueden ser la congestión de el propio
tráfico
las say Misiones desi dos o el ruido
también tenemos otra aplicación en la
ciudad en donde la la recogida day
recede Oso Ladouceur Bono's también el
stock rusada con el tráfico Cola
temperatura econ nivel de nada por ESO
podemos Optimas are estos DOS servicios
con men seed O's de Gras transformación
digital de las t da days es complicado
aboard our la de una sola des Santander
nd hace años que Mo's comenzado a promo
Burrell adoption de las tecnologías de
la información en las comunicaciones
Ella Mae or parte de los servicios de
nosotros en la otro smelter sa entrance
emos Anoop leo
municipal el de la recogida diverse egos
cubanos VII intrusion de la tecnología
sin embargo todos estos s for foes
Cimmerian de poco
samasya den player la tecnología no
cigar antes hace que esta bah a facility
la interaction de los diferentes process
OHS yah gente zkk a participant al
ecosystem Urbano una de las cuevas es la
nación de estándares komen meant a
acepted OHS interoperable z-- k facility
n el des Vanessa me n toda Rose
traditional ceelo's Kyong characterize
ah de nuestra cidade ew servicios estas
de menos de una de cada hora mismo
santander tenemos transformed odd oh
yeah la mayoría de los servicios de la
austin del agua la st own de recede OC
limpieza v area los parque say Hardiness
la energía la gestion del tráfico y
semaphore iike la gestion de los
apartamentos de los servicios de
emergencia todos ellos con una visión
de poder en el futuro real-life Arunas
gestion integral de la ciudad gracias
esse plataforma s Marcie TK Lisa dicho
en la pelea de santander de la mano de
telefónica in ech a comenzado la
implantation de su plataforma smurf ET
que permitted a really fair una sto no
allistic a de la ciudad y discipline
forma estaba sada impressed and our dia
existences la intervation de los datos
de los servicios e system s municipal s
SE está allá fondo utilize on domo de
los de datos communes basado en caso
relays hey Alma sonam en tow
analytical a esta información nos per
meter on un futuro implement our la
inteligencia de la ciudad
pudy endo realizar nuna gestion messi
siente de los servicios de gestion
global de toda ESA información relative
a los para metros de operación de los
servicios say present era conveniente
mente informa de cuatro de mandos Cano
objeto de caelo responsibles motif into
municipal a's podamos toh Marla's
decisions Meza propiedad en función de
las necesidades de rigueur Tso's de cada
momento otro aspecto fundamental
relative a las ventajas que nos Bryn de
los estándares Javier toes y que decir
destacar en este intervention amana del
papel que debe who are los datos y la
maleta say she owned a los mismos en el
ayuntamiento de santander a pasta Mo's
clara meant a por las políticas de
datos abierto x' muchos de esos datos
kane principio
son de consumo inter no para los
servicios municipal ace Devon server
tambien para stimula le cose sistema de
em prenda me ento para que con la
utilización de los datos se puede
conseguir nuovo smo de los de negocio y
desarrollo ago sir me coz aplicaciones
yes Ervin demo tour de crecimiento
Assamese MOCA be pensar que es a
cantidad sin gente de datos debe servire
para mobilizer una economía enter no
allah scanty dades massive 'as de
información que se general en el dia
dia y para contributor tambien a
rentable azar las inversiones cinephiles
case elevado cabo en este sentido lado
she owned estan trays interoperable see
abierto x' debe ser para consul adano
Sukho sistemas de innovation fatty list
and hola co-creation en el sentido mess
am priyo si promo viendo las actividades
ligado x' al temp rendimiento renter r
el papel clave a de las ciudades el
beneficio TI en dia nadie se questi ona
case in reducir la tecnología que NOS
de fe ciencia efficacy ax y que además
nos da a cierto en la toma dead officio
nays el cambio de LC you da da no
intended Oh Dez de las administratio nay
say locales que ya no es un consumidor
de políticas sino que es por los
humidor a la vez consume a produce a yas
del Lobo que él los datos chaser genera
en una ciudad el analysis des owes datos
y la Rica's adesso conocimiento tiene
que llevar knows a go Dennard una manera
predict eva por ESO si el defense hora
en el ayuntamiento de santander del
assess Marfa tease pero feel defense or
itami n de estos foros de kono Femi ento
ident enemy ento para llegar al knows
Carlos Universalis muchas gracias
super thanks which better way to start
than with a poster child of how to do it
a mayor who gets it and you know a full
ecosystem wanting to look beyond the
city borders so David here's a city that
cares about common standards why should
the stos why should the standards
development organizations care about
cities so perhaps you can give you a
position on that
good morning ladies and gentlemen first
of all I just like to do a quick survey
how many people in the room represents
city municipalities and this other thing
just raise your hand about half of the
room and how many people represent the
world of telecommunications ICT vendors
and operators
okay so 5050 okay of course and probably
most of the people on that on the podium
today I'm not going to bore you about
the the world of standards I'm going to
try and do the link between cities and
standards obviously Etsy hopefully all
of you know who we are where the
standards people based in Europe but
obviously with many projects all over
the world I was very pleased to see
Santander calling out successful
standards such as fire way of 1m 2m and
IRC sim which are relatively new
developments it's very refreshing to
have cities who are tech friendly and
tech savvy what we also have to deal
with our number of cities who don't
really know what they want don't really
know what they need and have to have
some sort of dialogue with technology
people and standards people so what I'm
going to try and do here is do a little
bit of the over the missing link if I
can down the temple to find the down
page there you go so today I'm trying to
translate what we've heard from cities
as they're mainly needs have a quick
overview of smart city standards and
there are many there are hundreds there
are thousands there are millions some of
them competing some of them completing
so when you say to a city have you
bought your standards today they'll say
what is a standard why does it interest
me and where do I get them from very big
problem very big problem I'm going to
give a very brief overview so I only
have six minutes of some of the work
happening in Etsy some of the standards
bodies working on smart cities and then
possibly how we can work quicker and
better and wiser and save our time so
we've had recently Etsy is all about
telecoms ICT connectivity we worked on
2g 3G 4G 5g radio technology all the
basic you know telecom standards this is
where we come from and recently we've
seen a lot of our applications changing
more automotive companies coming to us
aeronautical industry coming to us and
say we need the connectivity to help us
with scenarios with salute
with applications so Etsy standards
world of Santa's I said well is moving
up the pipe moving towards the
application moving away from just the
lower level of protocols in those
advancements we actually go out and talk
to our end-users that and some of those
now being cities and we say what do you
need what do you what do you have to
have and many of them need the one thing
that comes back is education we need to
understand why we need standards we need
to understand what standards are we need
to understand the language you are using
if I go into the depth of these slides
you're going to find lots of horrible
acronyms that nobody understands apart
from me and my colleagues cities don't
need to know that they need to know what
is the value of a standard how will it
help them deploy quickly how will it
help them save money or spend wiser and
how will it help them be better than
their competitor which may be another
city it may be another region so it
really is about what is the advantage of
standards also what are the main use
cases so a city a town a rural area a
farming district we can all call them as
smart zones or smart areas is not just
about cities with 1 million population
plus plus is about the small town it's
about the towns that are linked together
to make a Metropole all of these want to
be smart possibly I should stop stop
using the word smart all of these want
to be connected and deployed digital
services to their citizens because at
the end of the day that's what it's all
about make your city digital deploy
services to your existing citizens
attract other citizens and attract
industry you know you want investment in
your town in your city in your farming
area it's all about being better and
more interactive than the neighboring
town and also making your citizens feel
feel at ease being able to get some form
of KPI and we've already talked about
the work happening in izo cities need to
know how well they're doing compared to
before the digitization and also
compared to other cities so what are the
key performance indicators or the
measures to say this was a good
investment is it a success it was a bad
investment it's only saving me 5% and I
could have done that by changing my
processes also where can we be sure that
the stand or the technology will work
other technologies so interoperability
at several layers already in the city
can my my dustbin refuse collection my
energy my water my transportation data
be shared can i connect those networks
together so already interoperability in
the city or in the town and then between
cities can I connect to my neighboring
city just down the road with a bit of
fiber-optic how can I expand how can I
grow if they have a different data
platform to me it won't work if they use
different data semantic structures it
won't work so it's really seeing and
translating the ambitions of cities and
helping them to understand where
technology and standardized technology
can help so it's really giving a road
map also um how to use the best use
cases so for some cities it will only be
about energy saving for someone it all
be about traffic for some it all be
about tourism but in at the heart of
that there is a core set of technologies
and standards which need to be deployed
with different priorities so helping
cities to define their priorities and
also how to allow acceleration so if you
don't want to have the whole set of
technologies maybe you just want a
profile to enable you enable you to
quickly deploy some technologies so
having some standards profiling for
refuse collection for energy savings for
transportation that would be very useful
for cities so those were some of the
initial dialogues we had I'm not going
to go into these slides and details but
these are a few of the technologies that
a city may have and they're probably out
to date because there are new radio
technologies every week there are new
communication technologies the core
network is evolving from 3G to 4G to 5g
we're going to be slicing the core
network we're going to be giving cities
their own network slice to do things
that the technology roadmap is changing
very quickly but this at least Maps some
of them and when you go up to us up to a
city and say what have you thought about
your your ADSL and your your plastic
optical fiber they say just just just
give me a service they don't want to
know about the technology so again it's
all about trying to translate this
horrible spaghetti of technology into
something that cities can use inside
Etsy we have all of these groups working
on technologies which are deployed in
cities and I won't go into them but you
can see it's a massive amount of
that's work being done inside Etsy
already which can be used in a standards
environment this is probably I have one
minute left I'm just going to leave this
slide up there and talk to you about
this
it's brand new it's got a red sticker on
it we've just created an is G an
industry industry specification group
inside Etsy to reply to this problem the
problem statement being there's no one
place inside Etsy si being an official
standards body where cities can go and
talk to somebody they don't know who to
talk to if they go to a 3gpp meeting
there's going to be a thousand delegates
saying why are you talking to me they
need a translation function to help them
really express their needs in ICT
express the problems they've had
expressed the solutions they've found
and share that between cities so all
this group really wants to do is engage
with the cities to ensure that they can
come together with a standardized ICT
roadmap and then help each other to
deploy quickly smart solutions in the
city and hopefully I'll leave that one
up there and I'll end 30 minutes early
for any questions thank you very much
[Music]
thank thank you David if not 30 minutes
in at least 30 seconds so really really
interesting to see here on stage
actually those who get it
mm-hmm excuse me and then the actual
problem being how to share that
knowledge so it becomes suddenly the
technology is back rounded right so even
though it's it's heavily depending on
technology roadmaps actually the
education around this seems to be a key
so so cool from the American perspective
or the North American aspect perspective
I believe we have some of the kind of
the same ambitions going on so perhaps
we can return to how to we can then
converge but perhaps first give the
perspective from your side
hello everybody nice to meet you by the
way the picture I had over there look
time very slim I'm not that's lame by
the way as you can see so I am sorry I
wore for National Institute of Standards
and Technology which is part of the US
Department of Commerce and we specialize
in measurement science and also we
specialize in standards now we work on I
owe tea and smart cities obviously as a
part of our efforts before I start
talking about smart cities I want to
talk about IOT a little bit because
these two feels or these two expertise
are closely related from smart city
experts perspective IOT is a piece of
equation from IOT perspective smart city
is a one large application example all
right so if you apply IOT to public
sector that becomes a smart city IOT is
a lot more than just connecting devices
I mean probably a lot of you might think
that IOT is about connectivity
connecting sensors together that's just
small piece of it IOT is about
collecting data analyzing the data and
tech action for data and then bring it
down to actuation so that the whole
feedback loop is completed that's what
IOT is and then if you overlay or
superimpose that concept onto a city
that becomes a smart city and now when
you talk about feedback loop
it could be autonomous feedback but it
could also be human in the loop maybe a
person can make a decision or person can
actually participate in the data
collection process there was a long
introduction to say to talk about the
problems of smart cities as we have
today we talk about smart cities and
smart communities a lot but it's the
extremely fragmented market and as you
can see many cities are doing their own
development deep deployments custom
solutions custom tailored projects but
after the project is over many these
projects are not very sustainable and
that's a big problem for smart city so
in few
we were promised to see exponential
curve okay exponential meaning like this
like hockey stick in reality what we are
seeing is more of an incremental
improvements it's getting better it's
not like a we're seeing the overshoot
okay why we believe the problem of those
incremental improvement is because lack
of replication everybody does their own
thing but there is no clear agreed
consensus on the best practices so if
it's a worse situation for cities they
cannot leverage each other's investment
for companies they cannot create a
product that can sell in millions all
right so this is a deadlock situation so
what do we need to do this is has been
working on a program called the global
city teams challenge with a goal to
demonstrate three things replicability
solutions that can be replicated in many
cities not just one not just two but
hundreds of cities around the world
second scalability you want to create a
solution that can go and deploy in
real-world environment not just in the
lab third sustainability this is more of
a business case problem but if you have
a funding to deploy sensors that's great
good for you but after the funding is
over cities has to take over that the
problem that system and if you do not
have a sustainable business model behind
it you wanna go go for 50 years you're
not gonna go for hundred years so we are
trying to identify those best practices
that can be replicated and scaled with a
skilled and sustainable that provides
tangible benefits this is important you
can do whatever you want to do for fun
but at the end of the day if the
solution does not give you the real
tangible benefits that you can feel then
that solution is not gonna be able to be
sustained on long term cities will not
gonna like it at the end of the day
cities are their city government is
there to help the citizens now we also
want to tackle cyber security and
privacy issues very seriously
that's why this is partnering with the
US Department of Homeland Security
Science and Technology Directorate to
tackle this as a first-order concern not
something that you add on later because
you can add on later when's that
something already goes wrong you heard
this scenario so many times probably so
how do we do this it's easier said than
done this is how we do it instead of
each city working with each company one
by one we want to bring in multiple
cities from all the world and we also
want to bring in companies universities
nonprofits that can provide a technical
solutions and coalesce them around the
common shared topics of interest
autonomous vehicles traffic congestion
issues renewable energy and public
safety issues in water and energy and
waste management issues whatever that
comes out of this process will naturally
be replicable
because that is agreed on multiple state
by multiple cities at least they was
developed with a collaboration of
multiple cities and will be sustainable
because it will you know at the end of
the day it will have to be beneficial to
the to the general public now this
cannot be done just by the US cities
obviously there are a lot of cities
outside of the US a lot of population
living outside so we has to be done
globally so once we have these teams of
the projects we want to create something
called the super clusters it's a
coalescing these different different but
to share the projects into certain
sectors and we want to create something
called the best practice blueprints
which is going to be able to provide a
jumpstart to the cities who are trying
to do smart cities but doesn't know do
not know where to start since 2014
global City teams challenge has
incubated over 200 action clusters
across the world and over a hundred 60
cities and over 400 companies university
of participating now there are seven
super clusters as you can see a
transportation this is this is pretty
well known sectors in smart cities and
public safety utility wireless city data
to more important supercluster data
governance and privacy data governance
and exchange it's becoming more and more
important and also agriculture and rural
area by the way when I talk about smart
city it doesn't necessarily mean large
cities there are a lot of people a lot
of populations still living in rural and
area with a lot of agriculture
applications this smart solutions where
the talk will be able to apply to those
communities as well so as I mentioned it
is important to look at privacy and
cyber security issues as a main issue
now it's extremely important to look at
this as a first order concern not as a
later add-on because if you keep at try
to add cyber security layer it's not
gonna be complete you're gonna you're
not gonna end up with the best products
the problem is not many players are
aware of how to get involved so we
partnered with the DHS S&T; NIST G CTC
community brings in cities and the teams
already incubated DHS has a lot of cyber
security and privacy experts to bring
that in and we are creating a new
challenge called a smart and secure
cities and communities challenge which
is gonna kick off on February 6th at in
Washington DC and you can find more
information about it contact information
you can send me email if you have any
questions and you can go to website
right on time is that so cool so we
moved from the ground to the standards
to the global now I have a question for
the audience while mrs. L gets gets up
to the podium how many in the room are
involved in standards development all
right how many are from cities involved
in standards development one two three
four five six
not seven eight not too bad I I know of
very few cities who have a department or
even have you know know who who's the
standards person because usually it's
it's connected to the clusters is
connected to the verticals but in fact
what we're facing now is you know the
convergence of all of this you mention
it as as your one big application or you
could say one big concern right one big
mess so so how actually does it from the
city side so you were the Etsy ambition
also to address this and we're clearly
seeing okay there's a mismatch of the
organization around this and the job to
be done right so one of the people who
actually are consulting and you know
helping to understand how can you then
move forward from each side is you Tito
so please your position and join the
conversation thank you yeah thank you
good morning everyone thanks Martin for
the kind introduction and the organizers
for the invitation so my name is still
had said I'm a partner with Ron Berger
some of you might know the company we
are the the largest consulting firm of
European origin in Europe I'm focusing
mainly on work with government and
government bodies for the last couple of
years and there are in this field mainly
on digital strategies and digital
transformation of government bodies on a
strategy site we have been working with
national governments regional
governments and also city and community
governments on their digital strategies
and that's obviously a topic which is
very strong we just did a survey in
Germany overall communities down to very
small communities like a few thousand
people only and 80 percent of those came
back and said look we need a digital
strategy so there is a big understanding
globally and and in Europe as well on
what we need a couple of four players
that we can let's say learn from but our
question was since a lot of companies
and also cities are addressing us with
your question okay this is a complex
issue how do we address this and so it
all starts with a strategy and then
turns into at some point a business
model so for example we are now advising
a couple of companies as well who are
providers of services in their market
approach to smart cities we're also
advising that say government-owned
companies sometimes even national
telecoms and on their strategy to turn
actually actually actually countries
into smart city hubs and develop this
and today I will talk to you about some
work we've been doing in the let's say
more city oriented context and this
study I brought also a couple of
printouts little bit old-fashioned so we
printed only I think fifty-one or fifty
of them so a couple of us still there
there everyone else can download it from
our website
and we did this survey last year with
the simple question and see look
everyone talks about smart city but what
are the actual approaches that cities
take to smart city so we compared about
90 global smart city strategies I show
you the picture right away I hope is
readable so we actually looked what kind
of smart cities are out there and try to
analyze them in a more systematic way to
learn from them to see where are good
practices best practices maybe and what
can be lets say derive from that kind of
analysis obviously as we are consultants
we use the framework to do that and so
we build what we call the Roland drug a
smart city strategy index which is built
and based of some work we did with
research institutes on a systematic
let's say analyzing of smart city
strategies down to large 70 or 80
criteria in this free field so strategic
planning action fields IT infrastructure
the action fields can then again be
broken down into six or seven different
fields we're all basically all the smart
city applications and services you might
want to have find their focus so what
came out of this analysis and this is
the overall result globally so we put
this into an index and said analyze the
strategies in terms of how far are you
addressing all these issues which are
basically set in this index and the
overall result was that out of this 80s
seven strategies only let's say couple
of them cut through a level of above 70
most of them showed significant room for
improvement in getting up to the par
let's say of addressing the key issues
that you need to address in terms of
smart city strategies we do not publish
the full list of rankings because if
this work was not about being ranking or
showing ranking
and showing who was better who's worse
we only show the top three results which
are quite interesting for several
reasons Vienna Chicago and Singapore you
will find more details on the website
and also in the study about why
specifically those three cities stand
out and I think Sunday I did not so bad
either in the list I can say to the
mayor next to me what is interesting
just to give you a couple of insight the
coverage of action fields is very
different globally so most studies focus
on mobility energy and environments and
some on government key aspects for city
like buildings education health are
typically not addressed or quite let's
say limited in their reach yet so that's
something we need to work on yeah
also we asked do you need to be big or
do you need to be let's say rich to be
beautiful in terms of your strategy the
answers mostly no so you see that there
are cities which have quite good
strategies and are not typically a very
big city or are typically rich cities so
it doesn't need to be a big or very rich
city to have a decent strategy here well
the best practices are then broken down
into the action fields and into the
different segments of the of the index
so you can in each let's say field and
and even criteria find cities which are
let's say in our view best practice
examples you can learn from if you want
to build a smart city
strategy some conclusions I have three
minutes left so from a best-practice
perspective we draw like say 10
conclusions on how a smart city strategy
should be developed first of all in the
course of developing a strategy this the
role of the city and its administration
and its services should be reevaluate we
re-evaluated meaning maybe you should
not ask what is the standard process and
what is the digital version of that but
what kind of services do you want to
give to your citizens in the future and
how can that be addressed by your smart
city services second point is involve
citizens business and other stakeholders
it sounds simple but most people don't
do it today you know so many start by
talking to your stakeholder community
talk to your community and also to the
citizens itself so vienna has now
sending a track record and specifically
that aspect and I think it's very
necessary in order to have a strategy
that works out and is accepted also by
your local community Third Point don't
think only about a government we seeded
specifically in Germany and also some
other country that the digitalization
strategies of cities focused on
e-government solution that's typically
not a very useful use case so think
brought you think about the six actions
fields we presented and can cover them
as well as you can because there you see
a lot of value added from such
strategies now encourage self sustaining
business models and I could now have a
separate speech on business models alone
that's basically most of the work we're
doing right now for example in in
Darmstadt which you know is the the
winner of the the German contest on
smart cities last year that we support
in exactly that question they have set
up a company basically taking care of
smart city activities and the question
is what kind of portfolio do we develop
and what kind of business model do we
run for smart cities services some are
profitable some may be breaking even
some may be something we have to sponsor
as a city and how to orchestrate that
how to build a business model that has a
portfolio approach here is something
which is I think reasonably reasonably
new and the city arena to think that way
and that's something you have to develop
and the same holds true basically also
for the private side the private sector
parties which come to us through
questions okay if I am energy producer
how can I develop my own smart City
business models and they shouldn't
underestimate that in developing such a
strategy okay data strategy data
platform I think a couple of people have
said and touched on that it's reasonably
new to to to to have that and to look
into that I'm sure is doing it something
there I just learned it's doing that but
it's still not a standard to say great
we need this platform and we also need
let's say data security cybersecurity
right from the start otherwise it would
not work
finally involve your infrastructure
operators is also not seems easy but a
lot of cities don't know to not do that
right a lot of public companies are
there they have their own budgets their
own business cases that can be applied
and finally gain political backing and
integrate public feedback into your
activities and finally establish a
coordinating body which has its own
budget its own let's say strategic also
input it can go into the diverse aspects
that a smart city strategy has to cover
I think that's it for today you can
download the study you can do a self
assessment if you want on your own
silhouette city strategy if you want
more than 1,000 people have done so
already thank you very much for your
attention super super interesting to see
I would say this universe of case
studies of course the question then begs
what is the role of standards to align
all of these things and we can come back
to that convergence point so also
interesting to see how many these are
the numbers there's about what half a
million cities out there but how many
are bigger than 100 thousand four
thousand more less right so I mean then
they're not so many in fact so so by far
the majority are not right so by far the
majority of cities and communities are
small and probably not the frontrunners
so how can you even when you you know
see the convergence in this landscape
think already about how does this
connect to these these let's say yeah
other areas one for one of the persons
who have actually then tried to put
together an ecosystem that not only
joins the different verticals but also
works across different sizes and
different geographies so from the fire
web foundation give us your position
having heard in a way the background so
how do you operate in this space Thank
You Martin
so well this is the last presentation so
I really focus it in a way that could
work even as a wrap-up of some of the
points that have already been mentioned
before what is the path for success in
boosting standards and so on well our
vision is is summarized in these three
main concepts and I think that is the
important message that I wanted to
deliver to you in this presentation
first we need a vision second we need to
move that vision into execution that is
critical and last but not least we have
to be able to consolidate results
because otherwise we are not evolving
over time so what about the vision well
good news is that if we take into a
consideration Q quite relevant
initiatives in smart cities one led by
series or driven by cities like the open
and agile smart cities initiative
another one more driven by industry or
at least engaging quite a number of
industry companies they have we are
starting to you know this style a common
vision on how a smart city should be and
what kind of standards can be adopted in
order to create this common market
enabling Portability and
interoperability of solutions so the osc
initiative is an initiative that is
currently engaging more than 100 cities
in more than 22 countries all over the
world green on adopting a minimum set of
common mechanisms that would enable
Portability and interoperability of
solutions
tn forum driving a reference
architecture that aligns with those
principles by the way the same that were
defined by OSE may be moving a little
bit step farther
bringing concepts like support to the
data economy and the notion of city as a
platform what is common to both and I
think this is kind of working as a glue
is that fiber is route there as a
technology that can be actually put in
place to implement those principles what
are those and the mission well first of
all we need that cities bring
infrastructure where data can be share a
common space where you can break the
silos of information because many cities
today already have a lot of systems
deployed solving problems specific
challenges like waste management like
traffic management and so on but those
are better gas silos of information did
it have to break those silos create a
common layer well all these information
share and then governance systems can be
built on top so one of these mechanisms
that cities are looking for and industry
are looking for within the two
initiatives that I mentioned about
creating the standards for this common
information layer and that is what fibre
is bringing and these initiatives are
adopting also common information models
because we need to come up with the same
vision of what we mean when we are
talking about the streets about traffic
about the pins about the people that are
living in the city and creating this
common lingua is essential for the
portability of solutions so we need to
move
into the path going towards definition
of common information models which will
ultimately lead and allow Portability
and interoperability of solutions
the third element ingredient is that of
being able to publish information
because I think the value of an smarts
it is not just a city that contains the
data for the better management of the
services it provides is about bringing
part of this data and make it available
to third parties so that they can create
applications and run innovative
solutions so data publication platforms
and moving the open data approaches into
right time open date approaches where
you can release information but in real
time about what's going on in the city
become essential and creating common
mechanisms common standards for cities
in how this can be done is the way to
move forward last but not least cities
have to recognize that when describing
what's going on in the city they do not
have all the data some parties may have
that data so how we can stimulate them
to release that data and share it for
the benefit of those who are creating
solutions for the citizens for the
business well that has to do a lot with
the data economy of concept allowing
companies organizations to release part
of the data and why not monetize that
data and even the cities may wish to get
something in return of the data they
they offer so bringing technologies to
enable this becomes also a part of this
vision towards a journey that would
allow cities to evolve from where they
are
mostly today which is an area where yeah
they are improving they're bringing
efficient solutions but they have the
opportunity to move towards the
humming engines of growth enabling
creation of innovative solutions this is
the vision the vision is there now what
we need is to move move into execution
and for that we need to create what I
call a Bertos simple a little simple
where more and more cities are becoming
part and adopting these mechanisms this
extracting solutions providers to create
solutions based on these common
mechanisms and the ability of having
many different solutions based on this
common mechanisms competing will drive
to creation of high quality solutions
and those high quality solutions will
move and create the incentives for more
cities to join and this is the beautiful
we need to create and where we are now
and for that we need leadership
leadership of cities that share that
vision that have the resources and want
to move into execution and lead the path
C it is like Santander like malaga like
bristol like Uhtred several cities are
already in that move and together with
the inform fibre foundation is launching
this smart city s power Congress and
initiative we call from run our smart
cities looking for this series which are
willing to lead the path so an
invitation for you to worship that the
improvement and ourselves running this
Thursday there is information as a side
event and website and those that want to
learn more are invited to join
finally ensure consolidation of results
and this is where finally standard
bodies like acting like itu-t come into
place it's not only standardization
bodies I think also is responsibility of
organisations like the European
Commission which are now creating
recommendations about for instance what
are the building blocks that are
required for creating the connecting
Europe facilities of the future this is
the step that will come afterwards that
we have to you know go step by step
through the process I have just
described in touch
thank you thank you thank you very much
ha also we have actually the whole I
would say the whole universe here we
have the people on the ground we have
those who try to specify a standardized
who who integrate and connect those who
advise and those who try to actually
build ecosystems around and I could say
that there could have been other
representatives but but this is the kind
of stakeholders who are trying to make
this happen so now let's have a
discussion of how how do we connect
these things how how do we get a
convergence right so send your questions
here we have 10 minutes for the for the
dialogue and I'll take the first one
here from Philip Pullman from a
governance perspective which institution
or organization is most suitable to set
and oversee common standards ah ok so in
fact I mean we do have the UN at some
point they even have a focus group on
dated processing and management for IOT
in smart cities it takes all these
streams in so maybe a question to go
through the panel here and while you put
more questions here or you can also
raise your hand or go to stand before
the microphone how do we get this
convergence I mean from the city's
perspective how do we get the market
organized so you making your life more
easy more efficient when you want to
deliver good services to you to your
citizens how so maybe you can there's a
handheld mic yes you know yo creo que
quieres de lo que se LOC TiVo final es
que el Sodano Tenga cada vez mejor
servicios yo creo que las ministration
que los bomberos locales es el mejor
laboratorio OS la mejor puesta Westin
kagune lo que tenemos que tratar de lo
que nosotros como ciudad se estamos en
nuestros momentos es que todos los datos
que por ser de una de las cidades
intelligent Espeon eras po Santander
loss position ahmo's como la verdad
Terrier mano meda Mo's muchisimas cosas
pero la necesidad factual SKS's cosas
que pueden interrelation are una Cano
Trejo siempre led volos Medanos que lo
que sería maravilloso es que position
di una Phua en el servicio de
de agua de hasta cemento de agua
inmediatamente los same afros say pong
Gannon amber inmediatamente el tráfico
say des via protract IA Nvidia Tom Entei
el transporter bono tampoco pasa por ahi
le puede Mandarin mensaje todos los
llanos diciendo que vão ver un Corte de
agua por avaria para ESO para para que
eso Elsa da da no lo puedo ver lo que
necesitamos es que todas estas vertical
A's habla en el mismo idioma como si
adichie Aki yo Eden interrelation r SE
hace adonde que de mecir yo quiero poner
en frente de los llanos diciendo que con
el internet de las cosas que con la
plataforma ET con la interpretación de
los datos puedo ser predict eva puedo a
del ant army a los problemas que tenga
lasse acento SE creo que las
ministration low-cal que los
sentimientos que las NTAs locale en our
cidades
el mejor laboratory orchid are very good
so passing the microphone to today with
just reflecting so I mean one thing is
to get all the mayor's on this level so
you from the table you can you can
organize on orchestrate it all I would
say that's that's a good start so David
Etsy a European organization how can the
CDP and and the other initiatives how
can you help support this convergence
upwards and downwards and to the sides
willing to answer to that very very
frequent question there is no one
standards body that will define a smites
smart City for a municipality or a mayor
or for a metric on there are multiple
standards bodies Malta before multiple
technologies so you have eyes oh I I tu
an IEC
send sound like Etsy you have fire where
you have GSMA you have TM for that I
have a lovely slide that shows a few of
those standards bodies and the cities
don't know who to talk to
so the the the role of intelligence down
as bodies is to simplify the language to
water the city and also to ensure
absolute corporal cooperation and
collaboration between the standards
bodies so Etsy is working with sin and
sin like Etsy is working with eyes oh I
see
and ITU we're working with fire in
sapphire where inside is juice in so
it's forbid duplication and go towards
collaboration cooperation
once you have that simplified standards
landscape you give it to the cities and
them in a language which is simple to
understand and that is the solution very
easy to say almost impossible to do
thank you so so the other side of the
Atlantic could we please do the same or
so a couple points that I want to make
it very important points here first the
problem is not the lack of standards
there are so many centers out there
almost too many the problem is the
adoption of those standards okay so
that's really important point to
understand second smart city center is
not same as other standards cities are
deploying solutions with or without
standards anyway right and they've been
doing this for a long time so you cannot
create a standard in a conference room
even if you bring in 200 experts from
the world but they think they are the
experts in the Smart City standards
whatever comes out of it will not gonna
be adopted unless cities and companies
and universities decide to adopt them so
instead of trying to come up with the
artificial standards you'd really have
to look into what is being successfully
deployed today and try to extract a
common we call it distilling process you
have to extract the commonality
successful commonalities out of that and
document them that's the way to do the
standards in smart cities specific and
IOT in general that's prima that's the
message I have so which conference party
should take care of it great question
and then maybe to do miss the Celt how
long do we have to wait I mean so so how
do you where do we go if we want it now
there's a big process going on in
standardization and it's useful and we
need to do it it's going to be a
bottom-up process it will it will take
time we don't have it yet and there's no
single standard that you could apply is
the trickles down into different action
fields so that's why we need to work
with heuristics for the time being
that's one reason why we set up this
strategic aspect and their strategic
framework because for the time being as
long as we don't have standards you need
to orient yourself towards the best
practices you need to see what segments
do you need what need what do you need
to cover what you could look at in terms
of good examples and then you can be
reasonably sure that you don't make a
big
mistake let's say yeah and this was this
situation I think we'll take a couple of
years until the standard bodies have
done their work which is a which is a
needed and serious work which will take
some time until we can come up if some
probably will not be one but a couple of
standards that step are stable enough to
be applied to someone who wants to
address this as a new project right so
from your perspective one we're trying
to get the convergence how do you
converge all the convergence efforts
well I think so we mentioned something
that is important which is adoption big
what are the candidates standards that
get adopted and there is where
leadership is needed because we need the
cities the cities that really go and say
okay I will take the risk of adopting
and betting on this particular standard
and this is what we are indeed trying to
do with initiatives like OLC withing TM
phone with the support of Phi where we
are betting on one way whether we will
see it or not let's see but you have to
go and and do this without waiting for
the standards to come then following
this driven by implementation approach
we need to consolidate the results in
the standardization bodies which is by
the way something we are also doing with
that G or idea T I think that is the way
so so there is there is a few one ways
which I mean so essentially what you're
saying is it has to be driven by people
doing things we cannot wait for the stos
but then maybe that's not just one way
as you said there there are certain ways
to do that so hopefully they also at
some point converge or we will have
let's say a market where there are
several ways while all the half-million
cities aren't similar right so maybe we
may even have different styles but at
some point we might find the Wi-Fi or
the USB or the simple ways to loosely
connect some of this myths so that it
won't just be a big concern but in fact
be something that is improving our lives
so those words I would like to ask you
to give a final hand for the panel thank
you for your participation and for
sharing
[Applause]

