Title: Securing the Digital City: Cyber threats and Responses

Ê
Subject: Safe Cities

* Safe Cities

Abstract: 

As cities embrace digital infrastructures to improve the overall quality of life, new potential cyberattacks due to numerous vulnerabilities may arise. This influences how cities design, implement and maintain their cyberdefences. Distributed ledger technologies offer considerable promise. How can public safety organizations learn to leverage these technologies appropriately? What role can self-assessment tools play in securing the digital city?
Speakers: 

Joe Paiva
Alison Brooks
Munish Khetrapal
Ian Smith
Asaf Ashkenazi

Conference: 
hey while everyone's still focusing
while people are still coming in I just
want to say that there is an asking vote
application and once everyone's in I'm
going to explain how to use it but we
really do hope there are a lot of
questions because smart cities is such a
big topic and cybersecurity is such
a big topic and distributed ledger
technology is such a big topic there's
so many topics out here really hope you
ask a lot of questions both in person
and via the app so I think the room is
full now so I'm gonna go ahead and get
started because we're already kind of
the clock is where I took us down to
about 50 minutes here so let me first
thank everyone in the room for coming
this is a big crowd the room is full and
that's that's a good thing there's
nothing worse than coming up on stage
and having like three people in the
crowd which makes it nice and intimate
but very awkward so we have we have just
about every seat this is this is like a
Catholic Church where I grew up every
pew is full except like the front row
the but but so let me let me quickly in
in in addition to thanking you all for
coming out like the people that jumped
up and got the front seats there's an
asking vote app on your own for those of
you who have downloaded hopefully the
smart cities app for the event app we
want to make sure we get to your
questions we really want this we have
set up this panel so instead of doing
presentations up front we're gonna ask
ourselves if I'm gonna ask them a few
questions they're gonna tell a little
bit about themselves and answer those
questions and then hopefully we'll get
lots of questions from you so the more
questions we get the better if you
haven't tried it yet could you please
take out your smart phones go to the app
and when you're in the app you click on
the ask and vote option and you can
select this panel and and when you do
that it will let you ask questions
because I know a lot of people don't
like to run and you know fight to get to
the mic so please do that please open
your app go to the it's called asking
vote it's towards the bottom and then we
click on and it gives you like
menu with menu buttons four three four
three rooms
please select ours and then and then
you'll be able to start asking questions
in real time so with that and if you
don't like the app please grab the mic
when the time comes so my name is Joe
Paiva
I am the CIO of the US Department of
Commerce international trade as US as in
the United States and you know kind of
here's the thing from traffic jams in LA
to traffic tickets disappearing in
Melbourne two major meltdowns in Germany
we've kind of all heard about the
threats related to the Internet of
Things and and by extension to smart
cities and we've put together panel
today that I think comes from a pretty
varied background that's prepared to
talk both at a high level and if you
guys want we'll go as deep as you want
into ways to address these these cyber
security challenges so with that I am
gonna start out with the end and I'll
let each of these individuals introduce
themselves tell where they're from and
kind of give their their three minute
spiel view from the tie level and then
we'll dig down into some my questions
and then hopefully into a bunch of yours
ok thank you that's just check same
check on the mic okay and so it's great
to be here I'm Ian Smith from the GSMA
and I'm the IOT security director Jason
May I think probably many of you know we
run a small event in Barcelona called
Mobile World Congress every year now
what do we do with the the money that
that conference generates well we're
not-for-profit trade association all the
money that's generated by GSMA goes back
into solving industry problems making
the world a better place and one area
that we've been focused on in the last
24 months is a whole issue of cyber
security in particular relates to cyber
security of the Internet of Things and
the smart city kind of personifies the
challenge the Internet of Things brings
you know look all the diverse use
in the small city you see them back
there in the Hall hundreds of different
use cases from you know metering traffic
pollution and so on on the surface of it
this looks like a really big
cybersecurity challenge it needs to be
solved and I guess I guess it is when
you look at it for a use case
perspectives very diverse looks like a
big problem but when you boil this
problem down actually when you look at
the platform's the technology that sits
behind it there's actually a lot of
simplifications that can be bought and
when you look at it from an attackers
perspective there are only really a
fewer methods of attack that can be
applied to smart cities so if you to
apply these simplifications it's quite
easy to generate resources such as
security guidelines security assessment
schemes that can help you you know
ascertain but firstly define what
security you need and secondly measure
the security that's being supplied to
you by your suppliers by the solutions
that you're looking at and that's what
we've done at the GSMA we've develop
security guidelines which are freely
available to be used we've developed an
assessment scheme which you can use to
check measure the solutions that are
being offered to you both of these are
freely available resources on our public
internet for you to download and use so
that's what I've been doing but today I
want to have C hear your questions and
hopefully give you guys some insight of
how our guidelines how our resources can
help help you solve some of the problems
that you've got in deploying this
technology ok so thank you munitia
thank you welcome good afternoon I hope
all of you are not gonna be sleeping in
this session there's a lot of threats
out there so there are about 20 billion
sensors and smart cities that are going
to be connected it's gonna create about
three trillion dollars of incremental
value 20 billion sensors three trillion
dollars it's there two messages you want
to take out of this session but after
these twenty billion sensors or as these
twenty billion sensors are being
connected over the next five to seven
years you're looking at a lot of IOT
threats and if you go back from 2000s
that there are so many threats one of my
favorite things as a 14 year old kid who
used remote control in Poland and
thought about the tram station as a
Stice station
and he actually changed the tram timings
using a TV type of a remote control and
that he did about four or five years
back and then their blackouts in Ukraine
there lots of different cyber threats we
are seeing over the last one year alone
there's an 310 percent increase in
threats because of IOT devices 90% of
them are becoming from IOT devices three
primary reasons and this is
oversimplification there are many many
more reasons but at a high level the
first reason that we are seeing the IOT
device is creating a threat it's just
the knowledge base for the IOT sensor
companies because there's a lot of
innovation happening in this market a
lot of it driven because of smart cities
these sensor companies come from
material science background they're
they're looking at ultrasound they're
scientists while thinking rethinking how
to digitize physical space they don't
have knowledge in context of security so
they don't implement anything in
security and that starts the first set
of threats that get created because of
that the second is just insufficient
resources they take an existing parking
meter and we say that parking meter is
going to be connected you have a $20
chip you go and connect it and you send
it back to the network and now since
it's connected you can have a mobile
phone and you can make payments great
sounds good makes money but if somebody
hacks into the parking meter and goes
into the parking application he can
download all consumer data and we know
there's some threats like in the u.s.
systems like HVAC systems were used to
download all the customer database of
target retailer those of you from us
will know that so it creates a lot of
things
the third is market pressure we're
seeing a lot of pressure and I was
talking to a lighting company and we
partner with a lot of these sensor
companies they help to complement our
solution and this lighting company says
hey I've removed the security module
because the public sector tendering
process is so cost Previn and sensitive
that it doesn't make sense it they don't
ask for it so why do I paid for it
so you see different reasons why RT
devices create these threats now of
course our strategy is to create an
overall IOT threat defense framework
we as a company are focused on creating
the network so we consolidate all sensor
data and application data that can come
from endpoints we securely connect those
sensors and devices and then transfer
transit translate them through the
network into into applications that can
consume it again all through API is an
encryption and all types of different
technologies and tools we use but our
goal really is to start step working
with the with the cities and thinking
about our ecosystem partners working
with standards bodies to bring in a
holistic strategic framework on how to
address cybersecurity there is three
trillion dollars of value to be
generated in cities by connecting
sensors and devices so one approaches we
don't connect and we don't create that
value second as we create a holistic
framework and work with ecosystem
partners and sensor companies and look
at different standards that we can
enable and certify them and deliver
solutions that provide value to the
cities so I saw too many places at once
so my name is esophageal Ozzie and I'm
working for rhombic rhombic is a
us-based company and we are doing
security product probably most of you
are not aware of us but you're using our
technology almost any smartphone that is
a manufacturer that means probably in
your pocket is having our security
technology and I think that most of the
credit card on this small chip that you
have there has a security products and
we're working also security products for
for IOT so you know one example that
I'll get that it's not like the examples
of the attacks that people are talking
about it's actually different example
since I live in San Diego ethnic close
to LA we had in we had a Hollywood
producers coming to us and they wanted
to do a movie about cyber attacks and
they wanted to make it more realistic so
they said let's ask about the real stuff
off of what's going on and how the
attacks are being done and you know they
were left they
them that the meeting they were not
happy because they thought that it will
be like you know in the movies and
somebody is hacking and when we
explained how actually simple it is and
what are the attacks are there they were
saying really and of course they don't
they didn't use any of our stops in the
movies the movies looks much because
nobody will go to the movie but that's
the thing the thing is it made me think
a lot of the attacks are simple and
straightforward I mean it's it's
sophisticated in the way that they how
they thought about it but at the end of
the day it's not that complicated and
you think about it you're saying how
come we left it open why there was no
security there and when you look at the
IOT it's even more saying there are
security methods that are being used for
the past 20 years that we are using
let's say in browser and others and then
still 70 percent of IOT devices have no
authentication and encryption and you
start to look into that and you find out
that the main reason for that is that
security is too complicated for reality
because IOT is simple it's actually more
difficult to do security it's more
difficult because the devices don't have
a lot of resources it's more difficult
because some of the companies that used
to do things that are not connected they
don't know about security and it's more
difficult because the scalability of
these things if one device is hacked
it's not the big problem in IOT but if
now you have a lot of devices and they
are whole can the indeed the attack can
be duplicated then it's a real problem
and I think that in order to to get
security adopted more in IOT and smart
cities it needs to be more
straightforward and work so the people
you guys that are building the wonderful
ideas that will make things more
efficient and will help everybody will
not have to think a lot of security
because it will work and it will be
solved if you need to spend your time or
resources over and over to recreate
security then we have a problem so I
hope that security for IOT
become simpler and more affordable for
everybody and Allison hi everybody my
name is Allison Brooks I work for IDC
which stands for the International Data
Corporation I'm on our global smart
cities team and I'm the public safety
specialist and when I think about the
whole area of securing the digital city
I'm really sort of faced with the
reality of what cities are struggling
with and for me that's the struggle
between all of the old old legacy type
technologies that we see you know you're
just a classic end-user devices printers
which if you look at any of the
procurement RFPs out there very few of
them actually have security
specifications written into them to any
kind of level of sophistication that
we're looking at now but then I also
think that cities are struggling with
those legacy technologies but at the
same time new and emerging technologies
like distributed ledger technologies
like bakhtin and those are creating
additional complexities for law
enforcement and public safety and that
it requires a completely different way
of conducting investigations or going
about your day-to-day business
so I'm sure you're all familiar with the
Silk Road example of the sort of darknet
marketplace from a number of years ago
basically when that whole thing went
down the law enforcement study eight the
Department Homeland Security
investigators really had no idea when
they first started getting into it about
what what and how they were going to
investigate and prosecute they weren't
sure if they were going to target
blockchain itself
Bitcoin the websites the people they
didn't so they had to start from Ground
Zero and figure out you know teach
themselves basically digital blockchain
technology and how to actually go about
prosecuting in that dark dark net
marketplace so I think that when you're
looking at smart cities themselves they
really are struggling with that old the
old technology and the new technology at
the very same time and it's a completely
sort of new you know black mirror kind
of world that everybody's dealing with
fantastic so I guess the first question
I'll ask all everyone up here is this
we're going no special order to answer
but maybe
start with you and so is this all too
much like is the juice worth the squeeze
like so so every once told us how how
bad things are what's the positive sign
right like what is what is the benefit
of doing this okay in terms of the
positive the only thing we can see that
in the whole there I mean all these use
cases bring great benefits to to cities
in terms of you know proving air quality
proving the efficiency of city improving
the quality of the transport systems and
so forth so you know the net effect
should be great on the citizens of the
city I think we will buy into the use
cases and the benefits but this security
piece I think is is is a real you know
an inhibitor to this these these use
cases becoming real and then everybody's
lives in a daily basis but I think the
positive sort of green chute that sort
of sits there is that these challenges
are challenges that we've overcome in
the past okay
many industries have overcome these
these challenges and the IOT can
leverage a lot of existing resources
technologies capabilities that are
already been developed and the good news
is somebody else has paid for this
technology already guys you know the
fence industry is probably paid for a
lot of it the telecoms industry is paid
for a hell of a lot of Technology you
guys can come and use it but you need to
know what to ask for
and you need to check what your
suppliers are giving to you and that's
the real challenge I've heard it time
and time again for the other panelists
here people aren't asking for it
people aren't bending it into their RFPs
that needs to change but I think if you
do you'll find good answers you'll ki
find your vendors and your solutions
Freud is giving the right arts its back
but they're all gonna do that unless you
put it in the RFP because that's gonna
push up unfortunately the cost of the
solution and I think fundamentally we
come back to that cost word and that's
probably the big challenge don't we we
all need to overcome but I think they
will probably come back to that
discussion several times in this panel
and I won't start it just yet
so ask if you want to take a stab at
that one too sure when I look at
technologies you know when we were not
me I'm not that also when we people were
riding horses and carriages right and
and you know and the automobile came
everybody said oh this is a terrible
technology people will die because it's
like so dangerous right
and then you know over and over when the
internet came they're saying or now it
will be a cyber disaster back to that 2k
back you remember that
2000 in the world will come to an end
and now I see it again it's the IOT it
the Armageddon of IOT that the machine
will take over us so I don't think that
this will happen right so I think that
sure there are risks but the benefits of
IOT of making things efficient
especially when you're talking about
smart cities and the benefits for each
one of the citizens of this city's is so
big is just that we need me to make sure
that we also take security and make sure
that it's protected but I definitely
think that the benefits is much much
higher than the risk so somebody call
audible here because because before I
before I throw it to Cisco so the fact
is that that automobiles do kill
millions of people right that horses and
buggies never did and and and the fact
is that I would argue the the the stakes
are much higher we've left the $2 in a
blackjack table and we're now at the
million dollar blackjack table right so
so I'll ask you the same question but
but with that as a background right
because I would argue the stakes are
much much higher yeah I remember I mean
I'm not that old but when they actually
first introduced them I don't know how
many of you know this they had there was
a policy that said there has to be a
horse in front of an automobile that's
how they actually introduced it so I
mean yes security is thought about it so
we thought about I'm not sure you need a
horse in front of an automobile to
insure their new accidents but I think
you should take a step back and see
what's happening in the dynamics of the
world by 2050 we're gonna have about two
and a half billion people more in this
planet and most of these people are
gonna live in cities so you're gonna
have each of your cities between 50 to
100 percent more populated in the next
30 years so just think about what
happens to real estate rentals parking
energy consumption water waste so one
way is to have a horse in front of the
automobile that's that's a good way so
do nothing basically or second way is to
say we have to digitize but we have to
come up with frameworks and and
capabilities which the industry has it's
not that the industry does not has not
thought about it and of course this this
is gonna be an industry that's going to
evolve and you're all going to learn
things of that kind and you can start in
in phases and start building secure
frameworks to deal with this opportunity
so the opportunity is much bigger I
don't think it's a question of even
three to three trillion dollars of value
it's a question of if you don't do
anything can you even survive there's
70% increase in population so if you
can't then what's the lesser of the two
evils that's another way to think about
it in a simpler simpler manner Wow you
can be a real downer I think I think
yeah I think we need to meant that to be
an upbeat comment right there's a big
opportunity there but from my
perspective um you know when I think
about the payoffs I look at cities like
New York City we're in the New York City
booth right now with them and New York
City has really been at the forefront of
a lot of these newer technological
advances in terms of leveraging advanced
IOT solutions and video analytics etc in
its real-time crime Center is a Center
in in New York City and using the domain
awareness system that I believe is
Microsoft what it has been able to do
with all of its interconnected
technology is basically stop the stop
the perpetrator by by following them one
block to another aren't on video
surveillance and also then sort of
decrease the time between the response
phase in the investigative phase now now
they say that they're the best
investigations actually start in
response and that's because the quality
of the situational awareness is so much
better that they're able to get to the
seam and finding the actual evidence
before it as in fact sort of removed or
lost or whatever so they're really able
to leverage a lot of that securely now
they have struggled with a lot
the you know privacy constraints around
you know stop and frisk and stuff like
that they still are stopping and
frisking they're just not you know
collecting the database anymore to do
that so there's a bit of a course
correction that they're engaged in on an
ongoing basis and they work with their
privacy commissioners etc but they do so
in a way that's measured and metered and
great success for the citizens of New
York and visitors and tourists you know
crime has gone down there year over year
for the past ten years now I think since
they've been really introducing these
systems securely so they're a great
example of the types of gains that can
be made in the smart cities space with
regards to public safety fantastic
before I ask the next set of questions
could could would you with the audience
mind because this is supposed to be an
interactive session and I don't want to
eat up all the time with the questions
from up here if there are going to be
questions from out there and I have no
way to know so just by show of hands
who's either put in a question on the
vote and ASCAP or plans to within the
next five minutes or is gonna get up and
go to the mic when we open it up to
questions so yeah maybe four or five out
of like a hundred and fifty people so
not not a highly inquisitive group or at
least not an aggressive one but so
please please put in those questions and
and please print as many as you can and
I'm gonna kind of try to ask I'm going
to combine the last two questions to
kind of wrap it up a little bit so that
we can get to your questions quicker and
then I'll save any extra questions I
have for after one last question for the
cloudcrowd before I ask the last
question by show of hands who wants me
to ask a distributed ledger technology
question versus a question about
anything else how many people are really
dying to hear about distributed ledger
technology oh so there aren't there are
there are some people in the room not I
still a minority but I think I think I
could ask anything and who wants a
million dollars by show of hand
yeah yeah at least got ten all right so
so all right so let me kind of let me
let me kind of combine a few things into
one question and and Andy and I'm gonna
it's gonna be a tough cuz you don't know
it's coming right but but we'll stick it
so look we're in a world right now where
we have the average organization has
hundreds of computers big organizations
like mine have tens of thousands and we
have not been able to secure traditional
computers and that's in a world where I
literally patch an update all those
computers every week and I can access
them just by walking up to someone's
desk right or my servers you know go
into the cloud so you know what are we
gonna change in terms of approach in a
world where now a typical CIO for a city
a little city right
who has far less resources than I do is
now stuck with tens of thousands of
devices some of which are buried you
know under a mile of concrete or in very
difficult to get through places right
it's it's a lot easier to patch a
desktop than it is an IOT device in a
sewer system right so what are we gonna
change how are we gonna implement this
holistic approach in this world of IOT
and get better results then then then
let's say we were for the for most of
the past ten years in our traditional
networks okay well well thank you for
the for the basic question that's it's
appreciated
I think you know there's a change of
mindset I mean you talk about the
enterprise today you know the the
traditional enterprise culture where you
have you know lots of lots of computers
connected to networks I mean the
methodology they they adopt their
username password that methodology this
doesn't apply to IOT it's being used in
IOT services today we've seen the
consequences but all these video cameras
being hacked they just apply the same
methodology what we preached with JMA is
to take other methodologies and
particularly take methodologies that the
mobile industry developed we base our
security around SIM cards you ICC's
these are small secure certified pieces
of hardware that are embedded within
every one of your mobile phones and we
use that as our root of trust in your
mobile phone and that technology was
developed it back in 1989 it's been
upgraded since you'll be probably glad
to hear but but the methodology stayed
the same - it said the same
framework stayed the same you'll be glad
to know in each of your sim card there's
an desert there's an updated security
algorithm sitting there dormant that we
can switch on if tomorrow there's a hack
of your of your mobile encryption
technology network operators can switch
to the next generation of algorithm
over-the-air and this is the kind of
mythology that you have to apply to IOT
you have to take similar methodologies
from other industries I say partner with
other industries take technology they've
developed they've paid for and embed it
into your into your devices into your
solutions you can take the OTA
technology that's been developed the
secure hardware that's been developed
the secure application environments that
have been developed reuse them that all
you know updatable over-the-air they all
potentially have a lifetime of tens if
not multiples of tens of years and
really that's nothing the solution in my
views to get to move this forward is to
not go down the traditional enterprise
IT security route but to took a look at
other industries not just the telecoms
industry by the way look at set-top
boxes other industries they've taken a
similar approach to QA Hardware
embedding roots of trust in into devices
and it's all gate can be done at low
cost but it needs to be thought about it
needs to be bought into your overall
strategy for those technologies to be
successfully deployed and that's what I
advocate so so then let me modify the
question a little before I throw it to
you Manish the the if I look at the rest
of the world right so I run today you
know a 500 million dollar organization
but I previous Java had a four billion
dollar IT budget and I found it was
impossible even with a four billion
dollar IT budget to run a world-class
cybersecurity organization and so we
moved everything to the cloud right and
we relied on service providers to do all
that stuff so is is there a play here
for X as a service as the quick way to
roll out secure applications or just
like we do in other industries or where
do you see that going you should have
come to Cisco and you're spending that
kind of money we could have helped you
there
but you know I think so the way we have
approached it is not all sensors aren't
going to be secure that's just the way
it is and we'd love to have every chip
embedded with security in fact we are
working with standards and we call it an
IOT ready Network standard where you
have 256 bit encryption there's
something called a mod file no pun
intended
it's basically manufacturer usage
description file that tells this network
that what's the sensor supposed to do a
parking sensor and similar example we
talked about basically it says the
parking sensor tells you whether the car
is path not parked where is it parked
and for how long it's parked that's all
it needs to tell it doesn't need to go
to the payment application it doesn't
need to go to the IT system it doesn't
need to send reach the reporting system
because that's where the loopholes start
so if you have a way to automate sensors
to come into the network and you can use
the network as a means to segment that
problem you have visibility of anything
that flows in the network then you can
control the security and issues around
in the network stage and that's really
how we have evolved our strategy we've
actually consolidated and we have done
this in industries from the last 25
years whether it's service providers
where we converge wise video data
networks where we looked at enterprises
we looked at Enterprise why is being
converged and IOT now being converged on
to our network and now we sync security
and network converging every device of
ours every switch of us every router of
us has software that you can enable to
sense what the sensor is doing where is
it going
you can set with the radar you can
ensure it goes to the right place
you have visibility you have tools
malware ransomware detection tools that
can even detect patterns even if you
have encrypted data you can actually
detect pattern encryption based on
pattern recognition you can on encrypted
packet so there's a lot of technology
there but I think it's not just the
technology that that's important it's
also the people and the process that you
need to wrap around and you need to
build that whole security framework and
strategy X as a service helps to elevate
many of the comes concerns so we have a
cloud platform
it's called Cisco kinetic for cities
basically it securely connects and
sensor to any application it encrypts
the data stores its segments that it
does a bunch of things we just talked
about and that allows you to the
technology actually allows you to go any
leverage it but even if you use take
blockchain as an example which this is
not breakable but if you give the wallet
to somebody there's nothing you can do
half the peer half the sensor companies
when you install the data sensor actual
sensor and our gateway application you
use standard temp one two three password
three two four five and you don't even
bother to change it so you can have any
amount of security but if you're in our
process to manage that security the
other problem so you have to bring in
the people process people is the
education process and technology
together that can solve these problems
so awesome these questions keep
restating this question to make it a
little more difficult every time so so
so we heard about X as a service over
here but but let me get to the root of
things so nine out of ten of our current
breaches all come down to strong
authentication or I should say the lack
thereof right so I go out in the net
where I go out right now and I bet you
half the people in this room log on
applications with the username and
password somewhere and if you don't know
this any computer you log onto with the
username and password trust me I can
hack in under 20 minutes so so the the
question is where does strong
authentication go as part of this as
part of this challenge for IOT
right so I I will answer that it's a
really good question now I answer it
like upside down right so I'll say
you're talking about passwords that are
bad do you know that what brought down
almost like huge services in the United
States like Netflix another which was a
Mirai
the Mirai attack a botnet that was from
IOT devices most of the attack you know
how it started because they used
username admin password guess what admin
second option first we started really
easy
but this is what brought down right big
sites like
that's the simplicity of some of the
attacks so yes authentication to know
and it's not authentication in terms of
users putting this password it needs to
be automatic so service should be able
to authenticate the device and know that
this is a real device legitimate device
that I can trust and connect to the
network and it needs to be done
seamlessly if I need to have somebody
puts the past or then I have a problem
with that the device it's all should
work really without any human
intervention because we are talking
about millions of devices and you know
the authentication is a good example and
and and of course our product also do
does that but for any product that is
being used what we are trying to do I
think which should be done for IOT is
three things the first one is to protect
the device in terms of make sure that
you reduce the attack surface because we
know that software will have bugs but if
I have strong authentication is strong
connection to the cloud I make sure that
the bad guys that are trying to look for
these software vulnerabilities will not
be able to talk to my device so I
already did something that is very bad
by authenticating and creating an
encryption then the second one is to
have detection I need to know that the
device was compromised so we heard like
different solution like doing analysis
behavior analysis and different others
but this is the second one so first
protection authentic with the
authentication and encryption then
detection because I want to know that it
was compromised and then it's how to
renewal or renewal ability of the device
the devices as I said will be there in
the market for a long time right we
don't know what attacks will come in the
future we have to have a simple way to
authenticate and to resolve the problem
that you will come because the problems
will come so these are the three basic
elements that I believe needs to be done
in IOT to ensure that they are protected
today but not just today also for the
future great so I'm about to pitch to
Allison but can we get the actual
someone's supposed to come up with a
tablet awhile ago that had the questions
on it
and if anyone wants to go up to the mic
because we'll go to Al
listen real quick and then we'll go to
the mic questions but Alison so the last
switch up of the question right and some
people are waiting for this is so if we
want to X as a service and we're talking
about doing authentication right there
has been a lot of you know no one will
tell us how but there's all this
top-secret hush-hush stuff about
distributed ledger technology for
authentication and distributed ledger
technology for better cyber security I
don't want to put you on the spot
because I don't know if you've had a
chance to really kind of I'm throwing
this curve ball at you but do you want
to tell us some places where you've seen
or where you think we will see
distributed ledger technology you know
and I'll caveat that with I don't
necessarily mean blockchain because
that's one of many you know DLT
technologies yeah well I'd go back to
the Silk Road investigations again
because that was a really interesting
application of of blockchain being used
to sort of obfuscate and hide the crime
on you know on one hand but then it was
exactly that that led them back to the
investigators back to the be able to
trace all of the forget forensic crime
being conducted and to bust their own
agents actually ultimately they were
able to go and trace the illegally
siphoned bitcoins that the their own
agents had been actually putting into
their own wallets so the technology that
way has this capability of providing
that you know the breadcrumbs back to
back to to the event and it's immutable
right that's the whole bonus or the
promise of blockchain is that it creates
this traceability at the same time as it
hides things so if you can figure out
the technology and get around it and use
it appropriately you can actually you
know that's that's how they actually
were able to bust Ross Ross Ulbricht
with with with the Silk Road stuff I
think that there's going to be an
interesting play with blockchain and an
IOT in a sort of a more positive light
there'll be like sort of more of your
stadium and events joint offerings with
this say your ticket sales and your IOT
lighting up here you know your way to
your seats and things like that so
there's lots of you know not security
cyber threats sort of you know angles to
this technology as well that are of real
interest and then and of course the e
identity piece of the blockchain in
terms of trying to be able to
you immutably secure your own identity I
think there's lots of problem promise
with that I was talking with an FBI
agent a little while ago about that he's
a little bit scared by the prospect of
ultimately when you know advanced
computing was able to actually sort of
trick the blockchain you know and beat
it we'd be all in trouble in terms of
our identities but but I think that just
means that we have to actually you know
we're not gonna not improve things for
20 years so I think it'll be an ongoing
sort of rolling experience that we have
with the technology and what we're doing
with it but fantastic question where's
that I never do get the thing so I guess
if someone just wants to walk up to the
mic or hopefully someone will where was
this tablet
oh there we go because no one is jumping
up to the mic you know so we're joking
you know there's some parts of world
we're like the mic has aligned 15 feet
long and some parts of the world where
if you don't have the tablet you'll
never get a question so let's say just
wow Oh Swedes up getting a lot of
questions I wish I had had this 15
minutes ago
all right just pick the easy ones all
right so so so all right I'm just gonna
ask each I'm gonna throw this question
you can you share good examples of IOT
solutions using security by design who
wants that one I do not who wants it do
you want it
all right subscribe to keep the
questions let's try keep your sisters
fast you got one minute there are lots
of solutions that have a lot of security
and encryption that we are looking at so
some basic things now we have seen
networks that we're deploying so
specifically for lighting and parking
type of solutions but actually like we
talked about waste management that's
that's the latest one you can go up to
our exhibition booth and you'll see that
this is deployed in the city of Spain
Granada where they deploy waste bin
sensors and these devices are using
Laura technology which again has fairly
good encryption and
and authentication so once you get into
the network we can actually consume that
information and data and provided to the
right fleet so that you can go and pick
up waste city say between 15 to 65
percent it depends on how how much of
waste and what the costs of waste are
this is a huge amount of efficiency and
I think that's a success thing because
the way the network was built and we
worked with the company called Ferrovial
there and and what they they really
thought through the whole security
aspect right through the design phase on
how's the cents are going to be
installed how they going to authenticate
it
how let get activated what would be the
network how the information be sent to
the fleet management applications how
we'll have dual authentication for
applications so that we ensure that the
the people who are using the information
are making the right decisions so
thinking through that right through the
design having the people process along
with it and enabled by ecosystem of
partners that brought us together to
deliver that is a clear outcome that
cities are consuming and I think that's
a replicable solution same thing for
parking and lighting so here's one I'm
gonna give this one I think to you
Allison the the question was do you
think we should start applying penalties
to companies IOT companies that
introduce the cyber cyber I guess shall
we say gross negligence in terms of
cybersecurity and IOT systems do you
think we should start applying penalties
to them that's the question on the table
making them pay for their sins I mean I
think there's already so you know I see
a system of fines if you know things are
egregiously handled but I'm not sure if
that would I don't know that I actually
would be a deterrent in fact to it
because I think that it's gonna happen
regardless of whether you do that I
think it's they that they operate it
with under factors outside of that kind
of deterrence I think it's fair so
there's one in here about hl7 which you
know being a healthcare CIO in the past
I'm a little bit biased on this if I'm
going to ask the question anyway so if
one of you guys want to take it is it
feasible to have all IOT devices use
unified communication protocol and and
they say like biomedical and health
information systems which for those of
you don't know are the most insecure
systems in the world they make smart
cities look good but but but who wants
to anyone want to take that there you
know I think I think the answer is no I
mean I've teach this to diverse I mean
you've got lots of lots of use cases
lots lots of different business models
they were all going to require solutions
that meet the cost targets that
pertinent that particular use case or
the particular use cases it's a whole
variety of different communication
technologies are going to be used you
know from you know speaking myself
you're going to have LTE devices 4G 5g
devices narrowband IOT devices LTM
devices 2g devices Bluetooth devices you
know every technology spectrum is going
to be used I don't think that's going to
necessarily converge anytime soon
because you've got different solutions
trying to hit different use cases
different cost targets but the good news
is is that for every one of those
technologies there is a tech there is a
solution to resolve the security related
to those the communication path the
problem again is those technologies need
to be applied needs to be played on top
of the communication technology itself
and needs to be implemented it needs to
be integrated and that's probably where
the challenge comes that's where the
cost comes from ultimately the customers
going to pay that cost to get the secure
service very well so there's one
question here that I'll just answer real
fast it says are there procedures in
place to standardize the deployment of
security measures and how could these
procedures cope with state-run attacks
I will shamelessly plug that the
National Institutes of Standards and
Technology is actually having a
presentation is it later today or
tomorrow already did it and chris has
already spoken to so there was a session
on that
but-but-but-but
oh it's recorded Oh maybe they are so I
don't know but but but I would say yes
there are definitely some standards
efforts in place that are meant to
address that obviously you know if a
country like the United States China
Russia Israel or a few others really
want to hack a system just candidly
there's not a darn thing you can do
they're gonna do it um just get over it
I I think I think the I I think what the
standards are trying to do is limit the
the number of potential sources of those
type of attacks right and I think you
know we have to measure security as a
risk management process not a not a not
a there's never going to be a risk
process right so I think this thing just
took all the questions away from me oh
wait there it is it went to a poll I
guess so there's a question here
can anyone on the panel's share a good
example of IOT solutions using security
by design oh I'm sorry I'm just trying
I'm trying to I'm trying I'm trying to
there were just a lot more questions
than we expected Oh are there someone at
the mic oh I don't want to like dissuade
anyone from walking up to the mic I just
can't see it I'm blinded by the light as
Bruce Springsteen would say the
[Music]
in a few words can you describe what
companies who are working with IOT can
do to defend themselves so I assume this
is a vendor question about what can
vendors do to defend themselves against
liability when they screw up right you
want to go for it so defend these
lawyers you both take 30 seconds of
piece right so I think there are two
types of companies they're companies
that are being attacked and the
companies that don't know they're being
attacked there isn't any such thing as
every company in the world there isn't
any other thing so you have to go
through a framework again it's down to
getting the holistic viewers to what
you're looking at people process
technology and I like the way he phrased
it it is risk management it's it's
something you do on a constant basis
it's something you you look at on a on
an evolutionary basis and they are going
to be new things there but there's just
so many technologies as long as you have
framework process and a and a way to
follow that process and use the
technologies that exist today I think we
have a lot of solutions there in the
market we need to know what we are
solving for I think you answered it all
right there's a great one here add one
thing to that I think that the
cloud-based security that says for
example you guys offer has the
scalability and the you know that is
really important so once there's X
attacking in retail it can be scaled out
to every single vertical in the same
solution so that it it helps all of you
know the externalities as it were this
is this is a great one how do you assure
they're all great they how do you assure
wrong one yes basically it's a question
about how to restore functionality so
we've talked a lot about you know things
to stop cybersecurity I read this
question has what do you have in place
how do you put plans in place for
restoration after you're taking down
Allison so for that it's slightly
different response because I wanted to
get this in because I think it's
important to also understand that the
smart cities out there they need to when
they're working well they don't need to
work from scratch with regards to them I
because other cities and we're seeing
this more sharing of best practices
across the board from one city to the
next so New York City is in fact
developed a whole series of IOT
guidelines that they are you know and
member cities have signed on to them
they cover security and privacy and data
sharing etc so you don't have to start
from scratch with that so in a way
you're ahead of the game and I just
wanted to make sure we didn't miss that
missed that as part of discussion that's
a great point but does any want to try
this that yeah I think this resilient
cities yes the Brazilian so I'll give
you an example from a Brazilian customer
that we had they said that they deployed
X amount of devices and they see like
two times the devices connect to their
network so they know that half of these
devices are our fake somebody create
them and connect through their network
but they cannot distinguish between the
real one and the fake one because they
didn't have any hardware as you said
route of trust to say which one so now
they have the dilemma of okay if I
disconnect these devices I don't know
which one is the clone I hurt my
customer however if I don't or I let it
connect then I know that I have someone
that is connecting to the net my network
that is doing something bad what do I do
so for example if as you said for the
question as renewability if I can and
this is part of our solution and other
companies are also doing it if I can add
a push of a button renew all the
certificate reset the device remotely
patch them and bring them up again
without having a technician going today
to the sewage as you said right you fix
it then this is a solution that can be
recovered and then I can get rid of all
these cloned devices and now I'm back in
business without a lot of consequences
on like taking my service down for like
days until I fix all the devices
fantastic so there's there's one more
here I I'm sorry if I want to answer
this one it says maybe because this
topic is too complex so can we treat
security using cloud services as an
alternative in order to minimize this
topic I will tell you yes
ask anyone on the panel who disagrees
with me to disagree but I will just say
I have run some of the largest IT
organizations in the world and I would
never take this in-house not on a bet
not not even I wouldn't even consider it
I would always do this in the cloud but
but and there's so many good cloud
platforms and I'm not gonna start naming
them but there are there are half a
dozen world-class IOT platforms out
there almost all the top 12 software
publishers have a platform and then
there's a lot of specialty platforms so
I absolutely does anyone disagree with
that just add that you know my my area
of focus is looking at law enforcement
Public Safety and they have to be you
know some of the most risk adverse
agencies out there and even they are
flocking at the cloud now because they
know that the vendors have you know been
doing cartwheels and hurdles for years
to try to get those security standards
in place and they're there now and they
trust it even more than you know your
on-prem solutions I think yes as long as
in the cloud platform you don't have
your username is admin and password as
that's the only condition you have to
have the people in process to couple it
up with the technology but yes your
cloud service is the way to go yeah I
think it agree the clients IDs are
people and processes issue fundamentally
who's managing that about that platform
and we see that can even get that wrong
still I mean you know records do do tend
to get leaked and so forth but there's a
lot of learning there that can be can be
built upon I think principally with IOT
the main vulnerability for my
perspective lies in the end devices the
end points the things are physically
embedded out there in your cities
they're they're kind of easiest things
things that attack you can physically
get hold of one of these devices take
them apart look at how they work get
into interfaces that they shouldn't get
into reverse-engineer it and then apply
that attack multiple times so to me the
biggest challenges is really focused on
the endpoint devices how you secure
these devices and again that comes back
to a lot of the the points of you
mentioned earlier about you know bedding
secure identity or it all stems back
fundamentally it's fundamental point
secure identity what is that device if
you can't establish the identity you
came over you can't do educated
authentic 18 you know so so is that
that's the kind of tip of the iceberg
and then it builds down to
authentication and so forth so I don't
know how this works whether they
actually come out and hook us or what
but there were not there was not a
single question in here about
distributed ledger technology and I know
some people raise their hand that said
they wanted to hear more about it but no
one actually went up to the mic and ask
the question about it so one last chance
I mean there's a mic there's an open mic
you can you can kind of like hand signal
me are there any questions we haven't
answered that someone really wants
answered run up and grab the mic
otherwise this thing is telling me that
we have to get off the stage but I'm
sure I don't want to put everyone on the
spot but I'm sure we'd all be happy to
go to the side of the room and answer
any questions people have or sit outside
the door and answer questions people
have and I could talk about geeky I
think everyone on here could talk as
geeky as you want about distributed
ledger technology blockchain or Fisher
Merkle trees or whatever floats your
boat other than that I I thank everyone
for coming and I hope you found this
session useful and come by one of their
exhibits or the USA Pavilion and and
talk to us and and we're all happy to
help in any way we can thank you
[Applause]
