Title: Strategies to Protect Critical Infrastructures and Assets
 
Subject: Safe Cities

* Safe Cities

Abstract: 

Critical infrastructures provide the essential services that underpin city’s life and serve as a backbone of urban’s economy, security and health. Thus, preventing and reducing the risk of disruptions of assets, systems and networks, whether virtual or physical, becomes indispensable. What are the best strategies to protect critical infrastructures and help local governments to rapidly respond to and recover from all-hazards events?

Speakers: 

Ramon Sagarra Rius
Juma Assiago
Tomas Roy
Ares Gabàs Masip
Jed Sundwall

Conference: 
hello good evening the lunge is
difficult sometimes
we have a good presentation here and not
to sleep really good panel we were
waiting for the fourth person it mister
mister album Juma will not be here we
don't know if he will arrive we start
with the other three members I will be
the moderator
I am Ramón Sagarra and from there a
company of its a platform for Internet
we have a stand in the exposition I will
not explain here what company but it's
at the end of the Main Street near the
set near the car fabric of we understand
here they're very interesting Stan but
today is for for her for for for the
people if you want to make some
questions nothing like this there is a
an app a scam boat you can use it along
the presentation you can write your your
questions you can say I think this
question is interesting or not I will
have an iPad I suppose someone will
provide me an iPad and at the end of the
session I will I will make the questions
that I I understand it more more
interesting or more linkit with the with
the presentation let us start with mr.
tomorrow mr. tomorrow works in the
Generalitat of Catalonia in the local
regional government is the the security
strategy director of a saccade saccade
it's the it's a center of information of
Catalunya we will have two presentation
of of more soft light and data
infrastructure and one more more
physical please
okay thanks everybody for coming and we
are at the government of Catalonia so we
are responsible of a lot of services
which are critical for citizens and we
must take care of most of them from all
the kind of threats that we are exposed
so when we have to think about how to
handle this presentation we prefer to
have a practical work a practical
scenario on health because I think that
it represents which is the real
complexity that we must that we are in
front of when from a government we try
to protect political infrastructures
first of all I must also explain that in
Spain the responsable of protection of
critical infrastructure is the
government of Spain and it has this
competence by themselves so we must
coordinate with them on protection and
what we will spend here is just how to
maintain the resilience on our critical
services especially on and health so we
are the secret the secret is an
organization like an agency which is
responsible for planning management and
control of service security or not the
government of Catalonia we have people
and responsibles and functions and
organization all all around the several
ministers of of the government of
Catalonia and we must be able to handle
security issues and also functional
security issues so in our catalogue
health model we have obviously the
Catalan Health Ministry which define all
the strategy plan organization
assessment and all the controls of all
the centers that collaborate a
co-participant
in the delivery of the health services
and we are also in coordination with
Spanish planning and called an and
coordination we have so the citizens
with are related with the Catalan health
or the health gather and service cat
salud
and also the insurance companies and
then we have several provide the health
service providers most of them are
public but we have also private them and
also consortiums and foundations which
are welded form both of them all the
security like the pro like as you can
see there are several players what we
have done is to take the problem from a
coordination point of view in a
coordination security information
committee which is a responsibility of
designing approve implement and
supervise action related to information
security we have a savior we have a
cybersecurity model when we speak about
critical infrastructures and a
protection we don't begin just from the
technical and physical uses issues but
we have make an approach that we try to
deploy everywhere and in a single
provider that is in the health system so
first of all we work on governance
through an organization also we have bet
highly on digital identity management
also we have define it compliance
framework which we deploy and we audit
and also a legal assessment if we speak
about protection we are a bit from the
classic school and we are working on
hard on security perimeters management
also we work very close to projects and
development and every improvement and an
innovation through the security projects
methodology and also the secod is a
third
which is a computer emergency response
team which is responsible of the
security incident management which allow
us to have a lot of information of the
real problems so we also have the
prevention area which we solve it
through the compliance auditing risk
analysis vulnerability management and
practice security and least we have the
resilience or the most close to critical
infrastructure protection through
certification business continuity and
training and awareness programs this
level security model concrete's in a
security program which deploys based on
resources excellence as like most of the
strategy but programs but which for us
is really important is to have an
organization on cyber security which is
the main key to deploy and to translate
all the all the needs on requirements
and specifications and so with the with
those that comes out from cyber security
we really believe that cyber security
makes business possible and it's a help
and it's a it's a must so we must be
very clear near to the to the business
problems to solve it now I will share
you with you some of our challenges and
that we must take care of we have a very
complex organization most of our
services are very complex with a lot of
players as you can see here we have this
information committee security that
security information committee that I
explained to you but we must coordinate
a lot of players both of all of them
with their responsibilities and also we
must coordinate among among the
different responsible of security of all
the government of Catalonia
we also take care of data data to take
decisions and to prize and also we
deploy all the different standards that
we
like health we have to implement if we
speak about protein protection if I told
you we are a third which gives us a lot
of knowledge and tools to monitor and
also to handle incidents we are also a
shock security operational center and so
with these two tools we have most of the
protection capabilities held no we we
have also a problem with IOT which is
most which is every time more deployed
and we are not afraid of that of it but
it's true that for us is a big challenge
that I expect that we will be able to
speak about in our yes okay thanks
and there are the challenges of
prevention we have as old classical
models all the based on information
classification but what our main problem
is we have a lot of providers which
develop in our systems and maintain
them's so we must bet on security by
design and methodologies to implement
privacy and also security we use as much
building blocks as possible especially
on Identity Management and
infrastructures and we accept as an
opportunity and a challenge the cloud
and the use of IPP just because we
believe that especially the cloud
environment is born from the security
issue and it's they take care from the
beginning of the security compliance no
so we are not afraid of cloud we have a
problem on revolution and revolution
because we are in Europe but it's cloud
for us is not a big issue as can be
sometimes a very good player to work
with compliance of privacy standards is
a must so we must
periodic compliance auditing and then
our investment must be also directed
especially on users for all the treats
that they are faced directly salvation
of duties and need-to-know principles
are checked in every system and
especially we work on awareness programs
trying to make a stronger all the chain
of security understanding that if we
that the user wants to be a part of this
chain and wants to participate on it so
we must give them tools that allow them
to be active on protection and not just
a problem the resilience of our systems
is not just infrastructure but are also
centers also professionals and managers
and citizens so it's a problem that must
be taken from a high level and an high B
you know we have a ter eternity on IT
solution by the providers so what we
have decided is to centralize and give
centric solutions and data centralized
clinical records my health and platform
of electronic transfers electronic
prescriptions are examples on which
services we are providing to all the
system of the health system to be sure
that they are that that they are
compatible and also secure privacy and
security controls are a must
we have encryption and communication by
default and we must trust on
organizations that they are responsible
of authentication of their own
professionals so we delegate this part
and we try to implement know we have
implement digital sign it transactions
by all organizations and we try to have
an a pragmatic continuity solutions
approach not just high cost and highly
available solutions because it's really
difficult to to reach them
without investing a lot of money so
sometimes we find out that this is
to have a be plan which is based on
physical or written documentation or any
kind of other solutions that
implementing very expensive
technological ones so just thanks for
your time we will reach there we will
improve our explanation during day thank
you very much thank you very much Tomas
[Applause]
and now it's a pleasure for me to
introduce you what is kibosh we were
together many years ago and it's really
a pleasure this time to to see another
time she works in the Ursula
municipality in the a gentleman and
she's the head of the resilience
department of the Ursula no city please
thank you very much yeah I'm going to
talk about two points that we're
actually working on and and complement
each other through to two examples one
of them is how we need cities need to
improve the knowledge we have on how the
city is performing and also the capacity
to analyze what the problems the risk
that that we are facing and how the city
what is the ability of the city to to
absorb them and this I will explain it
through a project that it's we call it
the resilience platform and the second
one is about designing criteria for
infrastructures and in climate change
and I'm going to talk all day about the
climate plan and how we need to change
the paradigm in way the way we we design
the infrastructures facing uncertain
uncertainty there's a changing nature of
risk and also some uncertainty related
to it but we need to plan
infrastructures for the future so what
are the strategies we are using in order
to enhance more adaptive greener and and
software infrastructures so first of all
this is a diagram of how we approach the
resilience building project
process sorry in Barcelona and it
consists of basically of three three
different stages first of it is
responding management managing risk
whenever we have an incident on the
street or on the services we need to
respond and we need to improve the
capacity we have in order to minimize
the the affection then we also need to
assess we need to know what the problems
are we need to have the capacity to
determine what the vulnerabilities of
the city are so that we can finally as
the first stage implement actions in
order to reduce them or eliminate them
and this confirms a continuous
improvement process where we would
ideally get to a position where we are
better than that we were in the in the
in the beginning of the process and that
is that an operative level complimented
through a more strategy at a more
strategic level with the roadmap design
and the planning of the of the strategy
to improve the resilience of the city
with a longer vision so one of the
things we realized when we started
working on resilience that we needed to
improve the knowledge that we have on on
how the city was performing and that we
needed to share this information with
many different areas within the city so
we needed to build the tools and the
capacity within the organization to be
able to do that so we started working on
the resilience platforms which is
actually a set of tools that provide a
comprehensive overview of the city and
how its performing allowing for a
holistic approach of the governance of
the city and also integrating and
sharing information that is there is
useful and there is relevant so we have
have this overall vision to support
decision-making some examples of that we
are already using it using it within the
organization is for instance we have an
incident on the on the street but we
don't know what's going on we don't know
what what lies beneath what are the
layers of infrastructure of the
different services that are running
maybe behind this this this Street so we
need to be able to overlap them and to
give light to that so that we can maybe
determine the dakotas but also prevent
failure
also on the incidences we need to to be
able to to locate them to be able to
know what the affection the potential
their potential affection is and
actually using this information has
proved to reduce the stock of incidences
by more than 140 percent and also the
average resolution time for sixty
percent so having the information right
information at the right time really
matters and also we need to analyze at a
different speed not just problem-solving
but also analyzing what the problems
have been in the past so that we can
learn and we can improve actions in
order to to reduce them or also even
facing new new challenges or new new
risks as the ones that will be related
with the impact of climate change for
instance this is a map that we've been
working on on the vulnerability
assessment on the flooding the sewage
system of the city and how it is how
prepared it is to respond to that ten
time
return period rain now but also for the
future scenario so that we can determine
the affection areas and also implement
measures in order to protect the
critical infrastructures that are within
the area and very fast well this is some
of the information that that we are
collecting that we are generating and
we've become aware that is information
that is relevant for more people than
just asked so we are creating a new
initiative which is called the resilient
Atlas which is a compilation of all
these information that is territory lies
because we mainly work territorially and
problems happening in a certain place so
and we need to address them in
particular areas of of the city so
another dimension of this project is
also the information sharing and given
like to this to this problem and and
making this information new and basis
based information for many other people
working in in the city and secondly I'm
going to talk about the climate plan and
how we need to change the change in the
paradigm on the way we are planning for
infrastructure for the long term
regarding the uncertainty that
with that there is in the future
scenarios so we have this climate plan
which is focused on on the people the
center is is the people so improve the
quality of life because all these
infrastructures and services are serving
the people and also in a comprehensive
way and that provides measures that
improve the adaptation of the city in
order to absorb all the shocks that in
some cases we know more or less whether
what they look like but in the longer
term of the projections the more level
of uncertainty and how the future is
going to look like it so and also
enhancing other types of the renovation
of the current infrastructure and
including introduction of renewable
energies and and so so yeah the we have
some objective or some numeric
objectives worthy for the climate plant
which is the 40% reduction of the
greenhouse emissions in respect with the
basin of to 2005 also including more
greening the city one more square meter
per inhabitant which is quite ambitious
for a city like Barcelona so lands and
so so compact also reducing energy
poverty and also making providing
engaging citizens to co.design and they
call implement the measures of the of
the plan
so enhancing citizen participation and
an action so we have studied what are
they what is the house climate change is
going to affect Barcelona and what I was
saying before it there's a level of
uncertainty on how it's going to to
affect us so this means that we need to
make sure that all the infrastructures
that we are building all the services
all the actions meet some values such as
making healthier Barcelona more socially
just more available and safe a
low-carbon and distributive in hunting
also efficient and renewable renewable
energies learning through the projects
and when we
the citizen with a committed committed
citizenship and also in looking for
solutions that solve more than one
problem in order to maximize the
investment and also that are as adaptive
as possible so we are enhancing greener
softer more adaptive infrastructure
versus more rigid gray or traditional
infrastructure we have come with 15
lines of action some of them have a lot
to do with with energy and the
introduction of more renewable energies
which also contributes to having well
being more resourceful and not so
dependent on one type of particular type
of energy also protecting naturalizing
as much as we can the city and so all
these measures we again we match them
with with this with these values to make
sure that no matter what the future
looks like what we are now foreseeing or
or not all the values all the measures
and actions that will implement and have
a value in in themselves and provide
also Co benefits thank you very much
very good presentation at the end I have
many questions but we wait the next one
is mr. jetson wall he managed the open
data program at Amazon Web Services and
in Munich please thank you very much por
estar de buenos tardes Thank You Tomas
and others for your presentation so I
don't have slides so I'm just going to
tell you a little bit about what I do at
Amazon Web service is a little bit about
what Amazon Web Services is and how the
cloud can be applied to secure critical
infrastructure when you need it so first
of all I think it's always important to
start with the definition of the cloud
so the way that Amazon Web Services
defines the cloud is it is the on-demand
delivery of IT resources this is
computing power storage applications etc
over the internet with pays you go
pricing so what this means is that if
you need to have access to computing
infrastructure or whatever it is you
need you can get it on demand and you
will only pay for what you need now it
probably sounds like I just said exactly
what I just said but just just in case
it helps to rephrase it but one of the
huge benefits of the cloud when it comes
to disaster recovery is that you can you
can have access on demand to computing
resources that aren't close to where you
are ok this is especially important if
we're dealing with with natural
catastrophes or things that might be
impacting your physical infrastructure
and as Tomas pointed out there's a huge
benefit that comes with the cloud which
is that we are built from the ground up
with security top of mind so security is
our number one priority at Amazon Web
Services because it's if you think about
it at all it's absolutely core to our
business if people don't trust us to
ensure the security of their
infrastructure that they're they're you
know purchasing from us we have no
business right and so we invest heavily
and constantly in insecurity and and
resilience because it's absolutely core
to our business and in fact this may not
give people as much confidence it gives
me but I really love this quote which is
for
Amazon CTO Verner Vogel's which is that
everything fails all the time that is
the mindset with which we approach how
we build services is is that we
understand or at least expect that
things are always going to fail and so
that you have to architect for failure
all the time to ensure security to
ensure redundancy and make sure that not
if failure curves but when failure
occurs that the data will be still
secure and then will be backed up and
available now I'm so I'm going to share
a few examples of how people have been
able to create more secure solutions in
the cloud or at least more resilient
solutions and so one of my favorite
stories comes from Asheville North
Carolina
so in Asheville they had a they had a
disaster recovery site so they had their
their city's infrastructure there their
IT infrastructure that was used to
manage all sorts of transactions and
ensure that you know operation of
certain systems and then they also and
they had a backup site that had the same
infrastructure the same applications
loaded everything else they needed in
case anything went wrong with their
their their main infrastructure it just
so happens that their backup
infrastructure was two blocks away from
their main infrastructure okay and so
this is this is a really good example
now and I'm not exactly sure what that
what sort of compliance regime they were
under at this time but this is the sort
of thing that like somebody somewhere
might say this is compliant right
okay we have our infrastructure we've
got to backup great we're compliant
fortunately somebody pointed out at some
point you know if anything actually
happens like if there's an earthquake or
you know some major storm actually makes
reaches Asheville our backup is going to
be absolutely useless to us it's just
two blocks away it's going to go out as
soon as the power goes out for the main
one and so so they they developed a
solution that would allow them to have
their backup infrastructure in the cloud
quote quite a bit further remote from
where from Asheville itself and one
strategy that you can take in these
cases is having a pilot light
infrastructure and this this is actually
what's pretty interesting in in the
context of smart cities as we're talking
more and more about sensors is that with
a pilot might pilot light model you can
have
your infrastructure ants on standby so
you might have the applications and all
everything loaded and ready to go but
you don't actually have all this all the
servers running so you'd basically just
have like an image waiting to be
deployed as soon as you need to turn on
a bunch of servers in the case of a
catastrophe so it's sitting there
waiting basically for a trigger to turn
it all on so it's what's interesting
about this approach is that if you have
sensors within your city so perhaps you
know something that's sensing flood
water or a seismic sensor or anything
that you want you can actually have
those sensors trigger operations that
would then turn on and automatically
activate this infrastructure that's
remote now so I I leave the open data
program at AWS and so I tend to focus on
organizations that have data they
actually want to share publicly with the
world and so we work a lot with
satellite data and a lot of mapping data
and some of you may have heard of Open
Street Map we have a lot of customers on
AWS that use Open Street Map and so we
we provide infrastructure to support
some of those the operations of that
community I bring this up now because I
think another thing that's important for
cities to understand now is that because
of I won't even say because of the cloud
but of course the cloud is part of this
but just because of the Internet you
also have assets at your disposal that
you can make part of your city's
infrastructure so what do I mean by that
with OpenStreetMap you have access to
mapping data that's updated in in as
close to real time as possible that you
can use and I understand why many cities
and many organizations might have a
certain fear of using a crowdsource
mapping service but I can tell you that
there are many many large companies and
also organizations including the Red
Cross that rely heavily on Open Street
Map data the data is very good it's very
useful and it's better than having no
data in the case of some sort of event
so so consider looking at things like
Open Street Map as a part of your
infrastructure as part of the assets
that you can use for your city in the
case of a disaster
also satellite data so fortunately we
have some very generous governments in
the world that produce satellite imagery
that is that is publicly available the
European Space Agency for instance has
its Copernicus program which includes
the Sentinel satellites so the the
Sentinel 2 satellite is an optical
satellite that produces optical data
imagery of the entire planet and I think
at this point it's it's something like
every five days you can get imagery of
most places in Europe now the data isn't
very very high-resolution but it can be
used in disaster response and a really
awesome example of how this has been
used is in 2016 is either 2015 or 2016
there's an earthquake in Ecuador and a
group called Zooniverse so this is a
nonprofit organization a run out of them
I think like Oxford but it's a
non-profit group that they run these
really interesting crowdsourcing
interfaces for volunteer response so
there's an earthquake in Ecuador they
went so we actually host Sentinel to
data through my program on AWS and so
Zooniverse said ok we've got access to
the satellite imagery let's go grab it
out of AWS we'll create this interface
in this website where people can come
and actually look at the imagery the
latest imagery post earthquake and
identify where there had been landslides
you know where can we see that there
there roads that have been disrupted and
things like that and then that data and
that imagery was used to notify
first responders and also update
OpenStreetMap for instance with updated
routing information and so again this
isn't this is an example of thanks to
the internet cities have access to
satellite data
you know most cities in fact I don't
know of any cities that have launched
their own satellites but the point is
that you actually have this asset
available to you and then finally
there's social media so social media is
it can also be used to monitor basically
what's happening in your city whether
it's through Twitter or Facebook posts
or Instagram things that you can you can
actually source and analyze a really
cool example of this comes from Chicago
they have an application called open
grid that they've actually open sourced
that that allows city staff you know
police law enforcement and first
responders to browse social media data
within a certain polygon basically
within their city to basically draw a
polygon and say like what's going on in
this part of the city what do we know
that's actually happening here and it
combines both their information that
they get from the city as well as
information from social media there's
another group called petabyte Ben Khanna
out of Indonesia and all the people
involved in this I've lost track but
it's a group out of Australia and then
MIT as well as involved in here they've
also built an open-source application
that can do this they've built for
Indonesia they started in Jakarta but
they've expanded to the entire country
to use social media to track information
about flooding and up-to-date time so
anyway so that so those are a few
stories here of how the cloud can be
used not only to you know basically
create a redundant backup of your own
infrastructure that you know that's very
secure and reliable but also how it
gives you access to massive volumes of
external data that you can also
incorporate into your city and then I'll
just close with with three words am I
out of time okay so there's there's um
the three words are undifferentiated
heavy lifting so this is a phrase that I
love to use it describes really one
thing that the cloud is very good at
which is it removes undifferentiated
heavy lifting from from people's jobs so
when I say that what I mean is everybody
who works in IT has to deal with servers
and running out of space and running out
of capacity securing those servers
cooling them powering them etc etc the
cloud lets you not worry about that
stuff as much okay so you can just turn
on whatever servers you need whenever
whenever you want to so you can focus on
the stuff that really differentiates
your city which is your people your
staff you know your hospitals and and
really focusing on the critical
infrastructure that only the city can
provide so anyhow I look forward to our
discussion of the panel and thanks again
for the opportunity thank you very much
we have 20 minutes I received two or
three questions - and I have one or two
comments the first one we heard about
climatic change you think there is many
levels probably the name of the session
that the session have to be different
and strategies to protect person's data
and critical structure and assets
because we see that there is an order
here and probably the the strategies for
the persons for the data and for the for
the the infrastructures and assets are
not exactly the same at the end we have
seen with the same with with the data we
can protect the the physical the
physical things and when we talk about
the data we suppose the rest are are
okay now probably the is the we have to
make some layers in this there is one
one of the questions that links with one
thing that I write when we say protect
in the in the name of the session what
what do you what do you think about to
protect in front what in in the in the
question says talking out data sensitive
data and open data have the same range
of protection and and and also if you
consider terrorism aggressions of the
for this reason each one its an expert
in in materia well you should protect
the the first things that you think to
protect that you have to protect him
from something which would which
subjects are there is a micro it works
yes when I think of protecting I think
about city service continuity but
services that are for for people like
you said you finish your your
presentation that what what really
matters is what the city is offering to
to the citizens its citizens or the the
hospital education the cultural services
or what the services that the city is is
offering that we need to guarantee that
they meet certain standard and that they
can continue to function no matter what
the disturbance is or what the
disturbances are so for me that is what
I think of when I think about about
protecting the access of the services to
for to the people
yeah I mean I certainly agree with that
you know you want the service to be
available all right so that's not a
number one we were talking about
protection in these in these cases the
the question though about you know like
health data versus open data you know
how important is it to protect both of
those you know sometimes I'm able to say
well open it is open so you can be you
know you don't have to worry so much
about security when you're opening up
data that's absolutely false it's like
crazy talk from my perspective because
especially when say you're a city that
you're producing somewhat of some sort
of open data asset you're making it
available to people you really want to
make sure that data is accurate you know
you really want to make sure that data
is valid and the people can trust its
provenance it's being you know being
authentic and so security yeah I mean
it's absolutely critical and and you
know and I'm not like you know I'd like
to talk about like terrorism is like all
these like crazy risks that might happen
but it is a real threat that you know
somebody could come in to a city or a
government that's producing a data asset
and change it just a little bit you know
just just D calibrate things or mess
with a sensor or something like so it
sort of produces inaccurate data so
that's a real threat security is really
really important for for open data for
me the protection is becoming harder
stronger trying to make things more
difficult to pay national but there is
one point that sometimes we don't speak
about that that that is especially
important to protect someone that is
detection I think that the capability to
detect to understand to analyze what is
happening and then to react but if you
are not able to detect you don't know
that you are in danger so you cannot
protect so you must put protection in
act but also you must be sure that you
are able to detect that someone is
happening
another question where do you have a
city and ization have to put more
resources in protect or in in good
reaction that means in resilience or in
reaction it's not easier because it's
administration have different actually
both are I mean both are for me are part
of building resilience of the city being
able to respond and also being able to
prevent and actually there are some
figures but I think it's by world bank
that by every dollar invested in
protection you can save five in
reconstruction so the number say that
and personally I think if we can go to
the root if we can anticipate risk and
implement actions in order to reduce the
probability of occurrence of this of the
risk its it's always I would because
sometimes sometimes it's about service
continuing but sometimes it can be even
be about our life and well now we're
talking about al Barcelona but in in
other cities in the world risk are
affecting directly to to people yes the
answer is both
I of course that now of course here you
talked and of course I do think you know
that but being able to prevent is
perhaps more important but at the same
time I feel like that instinct probably
a lot of people have that instinct and
as a result communication strategies and
response strategies get overlooked which
is just awful because you know so like I
said before everything fails all the
time you can invest all that you want in
prevention but something is gonna happen
if you don't have a means by which you
can communicate clearly and and
accurately and with authority with your
citizens in response to something it's
you're in pretty bad shape and I don't
think people take that as seriously as
they
our main business and success is on
protection and we came from there not
this is where we we win trust on us
protection I think but however it we
must admit that there are a lot of
emerging threats that we every one
dollar that we put on protection have
their can be lost no and every
investment can be cannot be useful if
there is a change or interruption in
innovation and also in threats No so we
must be able to recover in any case from
not just our if our protection fails but
in any case I will also like to speak
about that most of us have been working
for years to be with a debt debt
protection citizens feel protected and
technology gives us protection and now
there are there has been changes new
technologies that sometimes they don't
arrive to the level of protection we
were used to it is strange to ask
someone to patch their computer or to
speak about having a password or to
upgrade the software something like that
now there are some technologies that are
coming up that when you see the problems
that you have to protect from it seems
that is back to the past and you find
out that there are things that you
suppose that you have been working hard
not to work again in towards that and
not absolutely with citizens taking care
of that because they don't they think
that that you will give them secure
services and I expect that from
innovation I will respect the level of
security that people assumes that must
be given by out of the shell
okay and I want exam in your
organization's do you think you can
continues providing service after crack
electrical networks in two hours ten
hours one day can you continue providing
your your job your with one day energy
fail electrical energy disappear you
mean an interruption of one day one day
you can say two hours years because I
have a machine you can also you need to
accept a little a certain level of risk
also because trying to investments to
protect yourself against everything one
you don't need you don't know what
everything you can you can face in the
future and then and and secondly it
would be very expensive so so you need
to accept that that you will be exposed
to certain risk and and you have to find
the balance between the investment and
they and the level of of protection so
back to your question if we if we could
well depending on the so we we provide
service level agreements for for many of
our products that would provide that
authorization or so that assurance and
of course again if anything ever happens
because everything fails all the time
the way our service level agreements
work is we pay people we actually pay
people back anything that they would
have paid on us start doing that debt
failure but I would say that you know
the answer is basically yes everything
that we do is massive massively
redundant to the point that our data
centers are actually located you know
within a certain region we have clusters
of data centers that are on separate
power grids separate flood plains they
are designed specifically to to be
resilient to power outages and things
like that
we put your eyes and we protect which
are more critical and we have we try to
recover the minimum resilience services
but however in health system
the most important resource are doctors
so without doctors with we will fail
this issue without electricity
we they'll do their best it's more
critical than energy electrical energy
the doctors well last question
we found that our societies over the
infrastructure that civil engineers
designed over the criteria this criteria
that was historically historical serious
rs8 the for the cigarette system of
barcelona they got their twenty years I
think you said but with the climate
change discrete area disappear because
the historical series doesn't work that
probably means that the infrastructures
that that we found our buildings our
roads our highways our homes now nobody
knows if they are ok ok you understand
how do you think we have to affirm this
this this this history it is this
amazing situation that all the people
says well I put this Ridge here and I
know after 500 years of range and
everything this Ridge will be there now
nobody knows how long a ridge will be
there how do you front not the crater
for the future I see you work on this
but but what sensation do you have or
what do you think how people kind of run
this it's the complicated time managing
these this uncertainty and that's what I
I mentioned in my presentation that we
need to include criteria think of
multifunctional infrastructures that are
maybe because they require a great
investment and we need to maximize this
investments oh and maybe think of
software also measures that can be
adaptive in the in the future so there
are no they are not rigid and that we we
are aware and that we recognize that
well we plan them now we build them now
but they need they have a lifetime a
longer a very long lifetime and we will
need to be able to adjust them to to new
challenges so I think we need to think
in terms of of making them more more
flexible because we will for sure need
to to be evolving them and and also this
this other point trying to think of
solutions that solve more than one
problem that provide Co benefits and
also that provide multiple functions
because maybe most of their lifetime
they won't be in use if you only think
about 500 time return period rain so we
may never never happen so in the
meantime we need to be to be able to do
something with without thanks this is
actually one of the things that excites
me about Internet of Things which I
think you could appreciate is that as we
instrument more of our infrastructure we
can know a lot more about our
infrastructure so one way I talk about
this a lot is I that was talking about
lowering the cost of knowledge so
previously like so you talk about a
bridge how many times can you afford to
spend a human inspector out to a bridge
and have them pay attention long enough
to every detail the bridge to determine
you know if its bearing its its load
appropriately an example how this works
as Transport for London they instrument
everything within their system to the
point they know how fast the the
escalators are running they know the
weight of cars of trains and based on
the data that they have that sensors are
producing it's very cheap for them to
know like that escalator is running
anomalously slow or you know these
trains are really heavy or you know
they're going slow and things like that
so as we as sensors get cheaper and
managing and analyzing this data gets
easier it lowers the cost of us knowing
of what the health of our infrastructure
I'm not a climate expert but what I what
I think about it is that which changes
can have for a city like Barcelona if
there is a weather change which changes
have for a country like Andorra when
there is a climate weather change and
and we we must be aware and take an
economy way also to resilience and
continuity in in a city that is so so
beautiful and with so many things that
they have attractive that are the near
of the weather and the climate no and
that's the reflection thank you very
much jet a little bit I was I have an
idea to close the our places we have
three four more minute yes we have here
mister Amazon so okay and if there is a
data bridge or there is any attack you
must you are obligated to inform your
clients absolutely yes we lose all
credibility if we're not transparent
with our customers about about such
things
yes do you have any policy from
connections that are from for example
tour networks I do not know the answer
that question I'm sorry
there are really critical services that
are depends on Amazon services from for
example cities that they are or industry
that they put their critical services
not backup services their business on
Amazon can you say one example and which
can of insurance or which kind of
coverage do you have to offer them in
case of measure or this this risk that
you cannot transfer how can they
transfer them to them you okay this is
called the hot seat so I don't I don't
know examples or any information about
insurance or policies that we provide
for anything like that other than our
publicly available service level
agreements but we have many many banks
[Music]
thousands at this point of government
organizations that use AWS for for their
infrastructure many of those including
for for mission critical infrastructure
including defense agencies and and all
sorts of transportation agencies as well
that have have critical infrastructure
running tracking data about about
infrastructure and people and citizens
moving around the world
so and and I think you know one of our
most high profile banking customers is
Capital One they do a ton of stuff on us
I wish I had better examples off the top
of my head in terms of those kinds of
customers but but many many government
organizations that work in defense and
in in transportation transportation
infrastructure use use AWS one good
example this is the US Navy they use
this for for many mission-critical
applications I have one question for
domain Oats their machine saves to me no
excuse me
no it just as you show us a lot of
information that your handle
if it came from sensors and how can you
protect sensors and avoid to be to have
attacks on them or the defacement on
data and if you have any project on
citizen of us as a sensor of your
question what was the last hour series
yeah of course yeah yeah they
collaborate and we have sources we have
channels with citizens to report for
instance the maps that I showed with the
incidences in the city many of them come
directly from citizens reporting to my
telephone email or even we have an a
mobile app close the sensor so the sense
is transparency is very important here
this again overlaps I thought I said
before about keep maintaining
credibility sensors will fail sensors
might become corrupted in some way or
you know a good example this is there's
a satellite called Landsat that
something there was a failure the sensor
started producing weird data the
providers of that data were very
transparent the community said the
sensor failed here's what we know about
the failure and here's the data that's
being produced and the community figured
out how to work around that and and deal
you know extract value from the data
that they could get even though the
sensor was not perfectly calibrated
anymore so it all has to do with
communication to retain that the trust
in usefulness of the data from a sensor
will close fast answer people as a
sensor sure with the mobile when you
make a transportation in a city the
telephone companies see what is the
movement of the people and in this way
they can optimize the road of the of the
the boost the the the most doctors in
the cities the matrix origin destination
you can you can make that the best
solution for the public transportation
using only the
the localization of the people that move
in a city that is many other
uncertainties about the the sensors if
the the the the the probably a challenge
today for the sensor in the Internet of
Things is what what what is the
information as a sensor provide and and
what is this information for this is the
there is a lot of information but you
want to use it what this means in which
situation this is the correct measure of
this of this data and internal things
can manage a lot of data but when you
want to use the data
what is this data you understand me this
is the challenge today for specific
things you can take in three ways
different ways the same data but
Internet the philosophy Internet is not
to do three times the same data is to
have many data okay
at the annual have to correlate data in
different origins to have information
not data to have direct interaction now
I close before when I made the the my
last question about the the civil
engineers and the richer the idea was to
close saying that the probably the
Internet of Things the the the sensors
can provide that information about our
infrastructure you said something like
this and and well only we are right here
there is one minute to finish say thank
you nobody slipped I was seeing you now
what is this lipid thank you very much
for your attention
thank you very much for the speakers
thank you
[Applause]
