Title: Rethinking Urban Infrastructures in the Digital Age
 
Subject: Data Drive Cities

* Data AndTech

Abstract: 

The infrastructure that cities provide has evolved as needs changed and opportunities arose. Today, sensors check air quality, roadway cameras help with traffic flow and new energy systems have come to fruition. This evolution has the potential to have the greatest impact, as long as it involves citizens and leverages their creativity and innovation. How can local governments rethink urban infrastructures so that they better serve city dwellers?
Speakers: 

Ellis Juan
Jonas Donizette Ferreira
Uwe Jasnoch
Burak Aydin
Ben Nduva
Oscar Pallarols

Conference: 
[Music]
welcome to this very captivating themed
rethinking urban infrastructure in the
digital age we have a very diverse was
geographically and sector wise panel go
briefly introducing them jonathan Asante
is the mayor of Campinas one of the
highest growth cities in brazil very
close to Sao Paulo Vash not represent
sexagon is a company in the technology
field and consultant based in the United
States obviously he's from Germany Barak
Adan a Silver Springs Network a company
from Istanbul that is actually working
on network using radiofrequency very
very interesting been Duva is the head
of energy and infrastructure at the
Ordnance Survey this is a state-owned
company that specializes in actually
serving and getting data into n we have
a local Oscar pala rolls his director of
innovation a cell cell max is a telecom
company two very brief concepts that are
like to live with you before I give the
word to the mayor one is the concept of
smart cities as a European space that
uses ICT technology to deliver better
and more efficient public services who I
are the same time preserving physical
and environmental assets for future
generations
these are cities that put the citizen at
the center of its planning process the
second concept is the becoming in a
small city doesn't happen from Friday to
Monday over the weekend is a process you
need to have the adequate backbone
infrastructure of ICT connectivity I've
seen many cities spend 1 or 2 million
dollars in applications that they can
simply cannot run because they don't
have the the fiber optics and they don't
have the hardware to be able to run it
and it's a process where you should
start by the easier to implement
applications or easier to implement
solutions and the ones that can give you
benefits in the shorter time so don't
start doing the sophisticated solid
waste management system that tells you
exactly when the waste basket is half
full or is full completely start with
something more simple like changing your
public lighting emigrating from
traditional generally to LED technology
that will give you some savings that
will give you some extra money that you
can use for investments and with this
brief introduction I will now leave you
with the panel I will leave you first
with the mayor of convenience mayor he's
gonna speak in porto portuguese
portuguesa gonna start is senora's
señora zag reduce women cement a la
invitation para participar st grande en
quaint Roda cidades intelligence soy al
cardiology do de campinas a Presidente
de la francaise nacional del r car desde
brazil estoy aquí hoy como leader della
delegation de las mejores cidades del
brazil en este cilenti oportunidad para
compartir buenas iniciativa z levar
experiencias Ozzy tosses paraben or melo
haha' Northwest residents Rafa's era me
a presenter so in Portuguese esto nos
accreditor Mo's de Nova so a Nova so a
oportunidad de que nós temos de poder
fazil French yo pharisee resultados
melhores para no se Paparizou
yo quiero mostrar a key Adela Garcon
Brazil era que NOS acompaña son
professor grant C Dodds Jacob ties a
keifa's imparted our international spree
field ie akiha presenter French
nationals preface son cuatro Santos
Municipal Center presenter Papa song
set enticing percent do PB involve a
todos escape ties in principalmente
spring spicy dad's
temos as vice president systematic
assesses prefect some professors Lagado
Zara Genova so de tecnología que NOS
ayudan in famous hell achieves a estar
en un poco na na cidade in a cidade de
campinas amis Adagio million widows and
mutants tempie beii de catorce bastions
billions dollars
Tenga focus on para technology prey Nova
Samui Protestant ability' Giacomo's Mos
Espa de Vere
Vikram Ficano estado de Sao Paulo
Sudeste Brazil yo g lae inter most
populous cemetery Serie C Dodds do
estado sample I know jicama somos na
kilo kiyotsugu que otra P necesario para
que NOS pusimos tear anova so go Bermuda
spawn fazenda su apart Andhra poyo
incent Evo's Apache das universidades
tambien participant o e principalmente
initiative a bravado Eric reduce cement
a volver no Susie no eran on conseguí
a porous agua renew Brazil no estamos
trabajando muito compass areas public
Oprah Vedas prognosis pasamos cigar a
Bose resultados de algún resultados
Nessa are destined for Mossad agents a
seller adora semana de Sense technology
caress Takara's a semana de CS
technology designed Akeno involve a most
odious cleanses da NOSSA hegemony
spouting sin tennis phase emos de
technologie de nova zone algo muy
presenting a vida de NOSSA cidade heat
ambience a Grey Goose apricot Eva Scavo
mention our pokémon stata lado
logo message na na estamos también con
programa de Tahiti or intelligence
primer oho a DES bureaucratization
fascist facility' do a video SUSE da de
un segundo a message energy immobile ax
Dodge
dando preference apprendi really a
facilitator tambay Campinas USA gia
assess debut IG my procession is a
fabric on music oscillator estas a jihad
in Campinas notice arrow issue de
seguros Chioma son - muy topo such a
villain subhana Allah Pro passenger
prácticamente todos profit Prince
promised as grancy dad Brazilians Akio
Kurdish are pricey no in contributions
imposed a cidade de campinas nos
conseguimos implementation
defibrillation todas las escuelas
monospace putin todavía lo la velocidad
a internet eat resent Oh a party digital
para dentro de las cuales
Oh apricot evoke an penis basic Oricon
cameras intelligence registrado Tambor
toda movement a song Viejo's la
necesidad de mazuma pre catchy vous
dirai-je transport mobile Adagio burn
axiom abou zona hora con la camisa
person todos NOS vamos
now in tempo hey ow especially Elia
orientation do or REO transportista
Segundo uma coisa KO result aqui es por
todo cidade own air NOS simple is meant
a human communication electronic lel
mihaela son conceded Oh Lucy da da
musica de Stratego local equation
Susie's asuntos interests nests Verdugo
voluminous Powell
yep Reef a Torah Torah Saban forum
Astros de Senado cuando voy a tomar
Madison tambay ella puede fazer makan
suit a a suspicious fertilized embassy a
pet spa so popular Ana's des rois in
questa cotton Bay nós temos no brasil
incumbent a municipal naritsugu's
towards evolve mo zoom aplicativo
prairie meadows
OS Porto's de salud phone SMS commence
como se como aplicativo espresso azusa
dad owns 10 su mo we stock is Becca
Mentos in call Post Odessa wood-mizer
Osmond s Wakasa a report in contra
you men comment a procuress falando
poktan been sobre o future odessa dad's
knowledge plan a cement
nós temos uma cidades sense grants
cuadrado moines polka character discos
municipal brazil ears diferentes da
cidade zero pay some grant money sips
potato nós temos ki faster news for
sauna parties urban is a so do against a
mental stats at a practice service
públicos ellis non-fee Quinta narrows
Campinas OS do so it sends Chrome's
cuadrado z-- quad sent some urban asado
Z Quattro sensing the potential intimacy
dodgy King Boris says room a cidade
grain Juma metropoli a he Co
metropolitan attend tres Malone smell
Jabba tarts
no santaguida Mo's character is Kazuo
qualidade Vida
implant a mo sumidero occupation plan a
John Doe roost amici uma cidades Favreau
Sarah
convivencia en tres pesos yo car - are a
key whomever gray de cemento as mad seat
fellow convict him a few Fed s zk knows
professor do brasil accommo Smoot
contains impart spa de Sevilla a no me
de frente nationals prefaced razandrich
IO desafío una todos nós physique on
key technology no say Japanese Alfred
stage más que la fossa conscious pesos
cinto no Jia Jia oak want we Super G
Miller are avoided Ella's yoga credo
quia grandest romantic knows pasamos
phasor is Eno Sonova geração kicker na
skier amazona reality uma fasoli dodge
my or Dada como si Jimenez digitized
Yvonne Chrissy in fluency and respect
sources who evolved with obrigada
towards pillow convince a to French
nationals preface the puesta de aqui I
suppose some despair water-ski knows for
intelligence meta great
multiplicative effect very disciplined
very disciplined in terms of time I
forgot to mention something in my
initial remarks and it's as in other
years to question there is an
application that you can download which
is called ask in vote and then later on
they will send me the questions that you
as a public are making and I will direct
them to each one of these speakers who
so ladies and gentlemen thanks a lot I
left for them to lecture and I'm going
to talk a bit about rethinking urban
infrastructure in the digital age I'm
from hexagon your technology provider
and I'm going to share some insights of
what we are doing what we are planning
what you can actually use and when
starting about singing about smart
cities I think it's a pretty nice start
to think about okay what is the
difference between a regular city and a
smart city so what does what are the
differentiators about that and it has a
couple of things it's of course it's a
public domain besides you can look at it
and there are a couple of highlights we
want to mention there the one is
engaging the citizens in the society if
you don't take the society with you
you're never getting smart of course
apply collaborative technologies for the
leadership's give them a chance to make
a good decision work across the
disciplines or break up these silos
where the people of thinking and working
and isolated fields not talking to each
other and that's but not least and
that's what we love to do because we are
technology company rather user data work
with infrastructures and work with
modern technology so what does it mean
in reality
well we truly believe that a smart city
a safe city is a kind of universe at the
University of different disciplines like
transportation like Public Safety like
health care like governmental services
and of course it's something which
belongs to sensors and data now the
yield point behind sense on data is you
need to provide the context and that's
what we call the digital city so we need
to really digitize our city to provide
the right context to put in the sensors
to put in the data and to draw the like
the right conclusion out of the things
you're going to see so digital first
that simply is exact because otherwise
they have no chance to do Smee nning
phul technology around it projects we
are working on
it's like smart security this is the
robot which is which is an outbound of
sensor technology you can put him
everywhere you don't like to go there
and mine my favorite samples always if I
have a refrigerator house with cool
stuff we are like minus 18 degrees I'm
not willing to make a petrol inside so
I'm putting him and have a look at if
everything is ok but same is the smart
energy we have smarting smart metering
so we know we do predictions about the
energy consumption we'd started planning
to make it optimal that we going to
reduce the large power plants energy
supply we do need the connected citizens
we do have intelligent transportation
everybody is talking about
autonomous driving but what does
autonomous driving and reality means we
have hundreds of sensors working
together and you need to connect this
different cars because otherwise we do
not gain benefit out of autonomous
driving as long as we cannot connect
them the benefit is not really worth to
mention and of course Martel's care
where all the sensors takes place now
talking about sensors it's you know
everybody has a smartphone you have to
do they have to state your question but
what is the smartphone in reality it's a
unit of Zen dolls with a display and a
computing power and some people still
using it to talk to others what that's
not designed for that anymore
it's more like it's it's an information
display it's in sensor and people are
trying to catch the data your location
your elevation whatever you part of them
is doing and then try to bring it
together the real part and that's that's
really a crucial part in that story we
cannot simply pipe the Zen for
information in the network and expect
that we can do something meaningful out
of it because piping each you know my
smartphone has something like 10 sensors
if every sensors piping is information
in the network the cellar network is
gone so we need to do some
pre-processing
that's what we call conversion C
platform we need to do some
pre-processing on sensor side to
minimize traffic and to maximize content
of what we're going to deliver to them
to the end unit otherwise we are stuck
with latency us bandwidth or whatever so
a lot of technical obstacles but with a
smart way you can really overcome these
things
and as I said we need to apply IT trends
now everybody knows about big data and
big data you cannot go to a conference
like this talking about technology
without mentioning big data I mean
that's a commodity technology but what
we are also think about and me to think
about is data fusion combining data to
generate sense and a meaning out of it
what we called deriving actionable
intelligence on it we must get the
insights and last but not least and for
my personal point of view the most
important technology IT technology for a
smart city its IOT Internet of Things
because there everything makes sense and
the most important element with IOT is
it's not the solution I'm sorry to say
that but IOT is a platform it gives you
a platform to generate a solution but it
is not such a solution and as already
said you need to foresee the change you
need to foursie's in upcoming new
technologies you do plan in really in
constant improvements and if you don't
do these things by reshaping how we are
thinking about that solution they never
be able to accomplish that and we never
be able to make it smart smart smart and
short look behind the theme basically
and that's what we're currently doing we
take all different kind of sensor from
from static sends off to real-time sends
us we need to fuse them we need to
process them in a cloud base to renew
the rule-based environment we need to
put the classical context an operational
data on side how to operate an
electrical network and then we need to
present the result of this computation
in a way a mayor can act on it that he
knows what he wants to decide here he
has a vision for a city and we should
give him the tools that he understands
what to do for the future and that's
what this stuff is all about and some
tools short ideas about that
this insight on on incident management
so basically what we see here isn't bi
dashboards where they have collected all
the different incidents reaction times
so we make predictions about how we
believes that the crime is evolving what
we can do in terms of conductivity so
these are these kind of management tools
people need to have in order to get the
insights another one which is together
with a governmental agency and non
profit agency here in Barcelona is the
question of how lovely and livability is
in a certain quarter and that means what
are the key components is they have a
framework was 41 components for
measuring about the livability of a city
so of the the equality is a noise and so
the mayor and the city managers can can
select something and understand why a
certain part is a liveable one and why
it's not really likely to live there
because of certain conditions like too
much noise to sum up the connectivity
part and that's really the key for us we
need to bring these things together we
need to relate these things together
that means we need to create that what
we call situational imbalance we me to
understand me to understand how our city
is operating in order to make it good
and this is how hackathon is seeing this
world we do have the different domains
public safety we have transportation we
have the digital city we have a safe
city because we truly believe you never
ever feel a smart city if it's not safe
for you and then we have seas in tech
collecting things which brings the city
to the final smart part end of the story
and look at this eight seconds never
believe it
thank you very discipline as well and
now we're going to hear from Barak
so I don't want to make the same
presentation the exact on presentation
let me still running okay perfect
hello everybody my name is Brock hiding
I'm the EMEA GM general manager for
Silver Spring technologies and I need to
make a small correction the Silver
Spring technologies is a silicon
valley-based
technology company called the New York
Stock Exchange not Istanbul originated
this company
I'm from stumbles orders just a small
correction as I start let me talk about
the Silver Spring technologies we are a
company of internet of important things
or internet of critical things what we
do is we connect the critical things to
the Internet and help you manage these
critical things and the reliability and
securities is the most important thing
for us in that world to to give you some
understanding which continents we are
which countries we are operating and
what kind of a business that we are
doing in different parts of the world
we are managing 27 point three million
devices connecting to IOT active devices
and we are just processing the 5.6
billion bytes of data per day and the
uptime of these services that we are
providing is 99.999 so it's extremely
reliable and it's extreme name trusted
IOT platform when we take a look at the
what kind of services that we are
providing under the big umbrella of IOT
we are providing 21 different vertical
solutions under the smart city ranging
from smart electric meters to waste
management smart parking solutions or or
security cameras surveillance cameras
and so on so we are a smart city company
providing solutions for utilities
companies teas and enterprises and when
you take a look at the clients that we
have from all around the world you can
see different utility companies cities
that we are working and also we are
working with an extensive partner
network but let me roll back and focus
on the digital era why we are talking
about the smart cities today and what's
expected from us when you take a look at
the technology waves you can see the
first wave started with 1990s but we
only changed the internet page and come
up using with the enterprise software
softwares but by the year 2000 and 2010
the things started to change and
technology starts to touch to our life
that's why the time cover magazine is
place the cover page we are entering the
the you era which means the person the
you is very very important and it's a
you centric word this is the rise of the
the end-user this is the rise of the
season this is the rise of a consumer
era and another time cover explains the
the the the online world is becoming
more popular and popular this is
becoming real popular by 2010 and 2010
the mobile applications came into our
life and we are using extensively and
right now new wave of transformation is
beginning this is the beginning of a I
would say robotic world or artificial
intelligence world so the expectations
are shifting but one thing is not
shifting that the end users the
consumers right now we are serving to
the to the end users or consumers that
are extensively using the mobile
applications they are waking up with
checking the emails or
checking the Twitter's or or the
Facebook's and they are using around 30
applications per user and they are we
are installing more than hundred
applications in our smart phones and our
attention span is shrinking from 12
minutes to 8 minutes and when we take a
look at a webpage if I doesn't catch
something in 3 seconds we skip it so
this is the digital era this is our
customers and we are all serving to them
so we need to shift our mindset and with
the new wave of digital era new
technologies are coming to the picture
like the vertical farming like variable
technologies or the sensors that are
implanted everywhere in the in the
cities according to Cisco there are
going to be 50 billion smart devices by
2020 and 200 billion sensors in our life
by 2020 and the cities will be hosting
this the majority of the sensors by
providing the every information that's
required to make the decisions happen in
the in the city and one thing is also
coming autonomous cars are coming to the
picture Electrical will vehicles will be
the majority on the vehicles on the on
the streets starting from 2020s so our
life is changing but this is becoming a
digital disruption in every manner and
this digital disruption is changing how
we are thinking and how we are behaving
and this the cities are not immune to
this digital disruption and we are
seeing how the cities are changing and
how cities are becoming more colorful
more technology oriented and there is a
big race to serve for those seasons with
the more technology and it's quite
understandable because the seasons
living in the city is asking for
technology so we need to provide the
maximum technology to make
our seasons life much better according
to the survey 54% of the world's
population is living in urban areas
right now and the number is increased or
almost doubled from 1960 and by 2013
it's expected to be going over 60% of
the world's population is living in the
urban cities and the energy consumption
is 62 per 60 to 80 percent in urban
areas and the traffic congestion is
everywhere a problem so when we take a
look at these problems we can find the
sophisticated problems of today's cities
with the sophisticated technologies and
it's important to use the technology to
have the seasons better living in the
cities one thing is in important that
there are four thing is important that I
would like to make you think about it
first the agility of the solutions and
and considering that the end users
expectation is pretty high
all the companies the municipalities
distribution companies are there to come
up with agile solutions no one has a has
a mercy to wait for a couple of hours to
get a service from the municipality and
the reliability should should be very
high 99.9 reliability is required by our
customers that's why we are providing to
them and the flexibility of the
solutions is critical because we need to
come up with the solutions as as fast as
we can and as flexible as we can and the
ownership of the solutions is critical
we need to find a reliable and trusted
partners all of the time thanks for
listening to me
Thank You Vera very discipline as well
and now we have been a excuse me on the
time setting I think somebody has
changed the time setting and is reduced
in twos better put it in one I think
it's better for the speaker please Thank
You Liz okay good afternoon ladies and
gentlemen
my name is Ben and uver I'm head of
energy and infrastructure ordnance
survey I'd like to thank the committee
for inviting us to tell you a little bit
about a project that we delivered this
year and the project was based in a
small South Coast town called
Bournemouth and a study was into what
data what content and software do you
need to roll out a 5g network so first
of all I'm just going to tell you a
little bit about the organization that I
work for to give you some context and
then on to the projects itself and then
finally what I want to finish on is a
bit about what is a 5g Network mean for
residents and businesses of the small
town on the south coast called
Bournemouth so audun survey are a
government company around a thousand
people 300 surveyors fleet of aircraft
and our role is to create the geographic
mapping database of Great Britain we've
been innovating for quite some time now
we were established in 1791 I perceived
threats of invasion from from the
continent so we decided to map the south
coast of England using long chains of a
known length which were surprisingly
accurate by the way in 1971 we were the
first national mapping agency to fully
digitized all of our map holding in 2007
we created and deployed continue to
manage our own geospatial network to
enable to correct correct the GPS
position of our surveyors features that
they're capturing so within only a
couple of centimetres and in 2015 we
also launched our Eurasian hub which
like our incubator
for SMEs looking to deliver new
solutions into the marketplace but what
does that what does that that data
actually look like so here's an example
and in simple terms a map is a way of
showing what can be found at a location
and then these different layers of
mapping are then combined with other
types of data that are spatially enabled
in order to get a better understanding
of what's happening at that location for
example flood zones or population data
or network assets for example so this
data stack that we create takes anything
up to 200,000 changes every day and that
data that's published then turns into
quite a powerful tool so there are lots
of different types of use cases so more
or less most human activity is based
upon knowing where things are and then
how do they relate to two other things
so geospatial data supports businesses
government and community activity in the
right wide range of of ways from
designing and maintaining and repairing
utility assets through to emergency
response being able to direct people to
the right place in response but also
identifying where to invest in the
building of schools and hospitals and of
course the optimization of online
deliveries is important to all of us as
well as been connections and even
facilitating the purchase of our new
house
so as I said Maps a collection of data
have it allow us to describe a location
but not all maps are created equally but
there is a difference so the OS data
that we create is published in such a
way so as to allow machines to be able
to interpret that information so onto
the project itself what we did is we
coordinated UK government and we
undertook a study to understand the data
that's required for a 5g rollout three
objectives reduce cost
maximize coverage and maximize capacity
we didn't do it on our own
so we worked with the 5g Innovation
Center at University of Surrey the
metrological Office of Great Britain and
also Bournemouth Borough Council so the
first place we went to was data lots of
data I'm not going to start from the top
that's that's a mission we had done have
enough time so a more helpful slight
perhaps what we did is we did we
deployed the range of vehicle aerial and
ground survey in order to create a point
cloud we then meshed all of those points
together in order to be able to describe
features such as buildings lampposts and
trees the 5g Innovation Centre undertook
a range of different studies to
understand how certain frequencies were
impacted by features then they created a
propagation model but then we found out
that actually some of the tools are on
the market to be able to manipulate and
manage that data didn't quite work so we
built our own tool in order to allow
network planners to be able to create
coverage predictions on the fly one of
the major issues we found was around
data quality lampposts in the wrong
place which when you're supplying a bulb
or replacing a bulb it's not a problem
at all when you're planning for a 5g
network just a few meters of inaccuracy
creates a significant impacts your
network planning
and this is the result so the white
posts you can see there there are a
lampposts lampposts have become the new
park lane on the Monopoly board by the
way and through a combination of the
features and the attribution and the
propagation model this area which is
about a hundred meters 100 meters
squared that gives you an understanding
of the kind of coverage you can you can
achieve when you roll out network onto
onto three small lampposts just there
this is another view which really just
gives you an understanding of how a
network planner can move and manipulate
antenna in order to get better coverage
some key findings so vegetation and
street furniture create significant
losses and noise and if you're running
our network we need to start to find
solutions to some of these problems
building facades their type and their
roughness they have an impact on signal
propagation so how do you collect that
data because it's pretty difficult to do
so we know we're surveying company or
how do you plan around those kinds of
issues and then for transportation
bridges and gantry's are going to be
required in order to provide the
coverage that network that network
planners need and last but not least
speaking internally just being able to
maintain a 3d neutrally held geospatial
model is non-trivial
next month month December month of
Christmas Christmas tree lights all over
the place havoc for Network propagation
so the case of Boris and I've got a
minute left so Boston Consulting Group
save it after property providing good
solid connectivity is one of the is the
second most second biggest economic
driver for a town tourism is massive for
a South Coast town like Bournemouth so
into interactive infrastructure and
augmented reality are being investigated
right now giving over road space to
improve the public realm that's being
investigated better information for the
emergency services IOT smart lighting
those are all being looked at as ways in
which to leverage this new network and
then joining up services for all lastly
I'll just finish to say that Bournemouth
are actually due to roll out a live
network by March next year they're in
the process of engaging globally to try
and find ways in which to leverage that
network and use it as a testbed 5g is
going to be a worldwide phenomenon so
the council whilst thinking globally are
actually acting very locally thank you
[Applause]
thank you bang good luck with the 5g
luncheon and now to close this very very
disciplined panel we have from cell next
telecom which is a technology company
based in our beautiful whole city
Barcelona what Scotty thank you thank
you so much a pleasure to share with
this so qualified audience about our
bill for the next generation
infrastructure is related to the digital
era so let me let me just pay some
attention about what's happening in the
city is very much related to the
infrastructures cities nowadays are very
intensive in the circulation of six
items which are intensive in terms of
using infrastructure we are talking
about energy water goods people
information and trash and these are the
three the six things that mainly use
more than the first infrastructures in
the city
if we don't think about what the digital
transformation means that means that on
top of this which is analogical physical
based we are introducing a digital layer
and this digital allows getting some
information that provokes cities moving
from a mechanical physiology so
different layers pipelines
transportation grids public transport to
natural cities where real-time
information allows us real-time
decision-making
so we'll still have all the physical
elements as infrastructures because
things moving our physical ones but we
get something new which is data related
to that things that can allow the city
to act as a control tower as a neural
system for the real-time decision and
this is the crucial point from 7ex point
of view to understand what we can do on
these infrastructures one important
thing already repeated message but I
think it's relevant too and I want to go
to the foundation of that element which
is the IOT the Internet of Things we
cannot really be successful in the IOT
wall if we do not have clear idea
understanding of the different steps in
the value chain
let me explain for a while six five
sorry main steps first the sensors we
need to capture sub data sometimes
citizen is the sensor itself all the
time these are physical sensors but we
are in the very early stage of sensing
we just take temperature move on
counting people cars pressure this is
the easy D is the power of all this
stuff let's think about disruptive
sensors already working on think about
microbial life sensor imagine before
coming into this room this sensor tells
you oh do not come into that room
there's a flu bidders on flying
somewhere
if you get in you will be bet in three
days please reschedule your agenda
that's gonna be really disruptive when
new generation of sensors now we are in
a very very early stage and this
information capture from a sensor needs
to be sent to a kind of data collection
hub through some connectivity solutions
and I'll go I'll go through later
so sensor capturing data connectivity to
transport that data somewhere to collect
that data which is just rate data data
information knowledge to do something
and that knowledge to do something which
is the brain step it is about the
business logics what the hell I'm gonna
do with that data
23 what is 23 degrees DB's noise people
walking around my home thefts in my home
coming in what exactly's IOT means at
the end a call to action whatever I get
I need to apply some business logics on
top of and it's a call to action to the
last phase in this case a kind of
process map city action and doing
something because all this is value
oriented in the fourth step as you can
see there are two levels the brain one
which is the logics and a second one if
I get critical mass enough ego if I have
information enough maybe I can predict
something if I can predict something
probably value increase but this is the
concept and most of the deployments when
thinking about infrastructure should be
considering that value chain what extra
information can I get from
infrastructure which is relevant
real-time informing something I can
interact because this is a call to
action to the end user and user mean
citizen or not maybe other city
employees companies providing specific
public services whatever
as I mentioned connectivity it's
relevant and 5g will transform the way
connectivity happens we can see on the
picture there are some on the left side
there's a multi technologies
connectivity just port for mobile
coverage we have the macros are the big
towers we have the small small cells as
already seen bye-bye been and and its
presentation we have the Wi-Fi we need
to take all this data and all this data
it's removed on the 5g to somewhere
nearby the consumption point because
data processing will happen near by the
consumption point that means that we
will start installing in the
infrastructure in the city cabinets to
process data so probably when I get
login in ways traffic information it's
not necessary to send that data
somewhere at Google or at any data
processing center worldwide but nearby
the Avenue I'm in a congestion and this
is what really impacts on the way how to
deploy this infrastructure these are
real cases from cell necks three cases
three pictures the first tool on the
left
starting on the Left these are the fibre
network in Barcelona which is own
deployed by the city hall to provide
services and the rest of capacity on the
wholesale market managed by sonics small
cells in Barcelona already integrated in
the urban street furniture and the last
one also from cell NEX but this is
Milano Piazza Duomo this is a lamppost
and this is the future site this is the
future cell telecom site you can see in
that picture just a pure lighting
structure we have a camera we have IOT
sensing and we have a small black box
the last one is just an antenna
providing the coverage to all aminos
operating in Italy into that square one
single box one antenna for signals for
different aminos some ideas about where
this is happening to
this is happening to also in some
stadiums as a been use that somehow our
smart our crowded places this is a
cygnus installation the brand new in
Spain this is one de metropolitana from
the Latika Madrid Stadium new one this
season this is an infrastructure
providing service to 70,000 people with
the same infrastructure connectivity
that you can get 60 megabytes megabits
download speed by user only one network
this is the real impact on these city
infrastructures not anymore
different 4G networks overlap and a lot
of inefficiency and a lot of cost and
what about public safety as you know in
Barcelona we had a tragedy this August
last August a terrorism attack and at
that situation which is really
mission-critical it's the time that you
really rely on something which is 100%
available for those emergency corpse and
how do you take that in a place that
this one which is line 9 in Barcelona
how do you get coverage in so deep
infrastructure you need leaky feeder you
need to integrate whatever solution to
make this work very very very few times
if if we are lucky but you need to
provide that solutions and we need to
think about that how do we get all this
connectivity in how to deploy this and
this is a responsibility on every one
decision public safety and coming to the
maritime communications from selnick we
provide all the maritime communications
in the America a variant Peninsula so
all the national wide territory in Spain
this is true maritime communications are
normally analog are not digital we are
becoming digital just to make 3d
recognitions of chips and SOS messages
and what about the network in terms of
energy distribution think about the top
one process nowadays we know and think
the impact of this kind of solutions
when going in a distributed way
and just to finish let me think about
something which is relevant and I'm not
sure you are aware of we talked about
autonomous car an autonomic are by
definition its autonomous so everything
would need to drive should be onboard
and not to depend from something because
otherwise this is not autonomous but we
need to have all roads and streets
digitalized otherwise how you will
interact with these situations are you
familiar with these situations plan
explain both and this is my last light
on the left side it's a brightening sign
that you cannot recognize the traffic
the traffic light which is green any car
with a video or cameras on board
recognizing signals by video processing
cannot recognize that so needs to have
digital ID information and provide
real-time information about that traffic
traffic light information but look at
the right side this is a truck crossing
in front of me if I don't have anything
digitalized the interpretation of the
car about this truck is the one that you
can see on the lower sides I can
identify a truck but because there's
some numbers there maybe I can get
confused that this is a traffic sign
they are on the door three poles maybe I
can understand that these are poles on
the street and on the left side this
could be a fence with someone maybe a
rider crossing the street so a huge
confusion for the autonomous car if I
cannot provide that information
real-time and telling the car hi some
other asset is crossing please stop we
will in we will not get success on that
on that path thank you so much
[Applause]
okay we managed to have two minutes 27
seconds for one question we have three
private companies from the
internet-of-things arena hexagon Silver
Springs Network and Celtics we have one
state on come on corporation on data
mapping in we have a major of a very
attractive city in Brazil convenience so
should I pick one question all right
okay I think the best one is easier and
destitute what will be the impact of 5g
infrastructure in cities anyone on the
panel can take it again what would be
the impact I mean already
Oscar is already using his hot city
status yeah okay sorry
5g will be mainly overlapping four
elements one it's going to be gray do
much more spectrum and which that that's
going to be higher frequencies so higher
frequencies lower range that means small
cells because the traditional tower
doesn't work on that frequency so first
thing much more small cells nearby the
the consumption point for seamless
experience indoor/outdoor first second
fiber if we get so much traffic with new
handsets new solutions and so on we need
to take that traffic to the end to the
core of the network and back to the app
or to the smartphone this will only
happens if we have fiber enough where
these small cells are connected so a lot
of capillarity in terms of fiber
arriving through street furniture third
visualization everywhere we have
nowadays one box from one amino another
box from an under the nominal and up to
40 minutes by country average we will
have only one box for the four aminos as
i explained on the stadium these will be
trol from a control tower with software
kind of virtualization very much like
cloud to IT and the last one h computing
at the time that we want very short
latencies lower than one millisecond
there's no time enough for a data to go
to the core of the network and be back
once processed imagine a virtual reality
application and so on so needs to be
nearby and that near my by means lower
than fifth ten to fifteen kilometers so
we will need to start providing cabinets
with IT servers processing that data
that we consume around that 10 15
kilometer circles Thank You Skaar please
join me in giving a round of applause to
our very almost discipline panel thank
