Title: Boosting Collaborative, Sharing and Circular Cities
 
Subject: Circular Economy

•	Circular Economy

Abstract: 

The rise of the collaborative economy brings significant opportunities to cities as it boosts a sharing ecosystem, often with a circular vision to preserve natural capital. Yet there are a number of aspects of this new way of delivering services that conflict with existing industries, consumers and contradict existing laws. What principles should be adopted to become sharing and circular cities and foster a new urban economy favoring innovation and social inclusion?

Speakers: 

James Pennington
Sladjana Mijatović
Felipe Urbano de Saleta
Álvaro Porro Gonzalez
Clémentine Malgras

Conference: 
good afternoon everyone and welcome to
our final session of day Ron at Congress
now before we start the session I just
want to say if you do want a translator
headset it's currently being all our
sessions being translated in Spanish
Chinese and English and you can just
collect them if you go out of the main
auditorium and turn right and for this
session as well we're also going to have
a sign translation up on the far screen
to the left there so this plenary
session is called boosting collaborative
sharing and circular cities and we're
going to hear from a series of speakers
who'll be talking about the benefits of
adopting a circular economy
how can circular adopters change
outdated ways of thinking and
manufacturing so to chair this session
I'm delighted to announce that we have
James Pennington here James works on the
World Economic Forum circular economy
initiative looking at policy engagements
and merging markets with a key focus on
a China and Africa prior to the forum
James worked for a london-based
think-tank and consulted for the British
Foreign and Commonwealth Office so
please give a very warm welcome to James
Pennington thank you very much thank you
for that introduction and
so I welcome the speakers to the stage
and I'll just give a quick overview of
the topic and maybe set a little bit
what we're going to speak about today
and some of the questions and some of
the challenges they want to give to the
speakers and the audience I just want to
remind you all as well that if you want
to ask questions it's all done through
the app so the asking vote app just go
to this address here smart cities Expo
com ask and vote and put some questions
in and start asking questions now
because the more questions the better
and we'll have a much richer
conversation if we have questions from
the audience so the circular sharing
collaborative economy is quite a broad
set of set of terms we're talking about
today and I really want to unpack that
in the conversation but just to talk a
little bit about some of the background
and what we're facing here and some of
the trends which are really leading that
with why we need to think about this in
cities so firstly I resource constraints
we're extracting huge amounts of
resources the in in 1970 we extracted 22
billion tons per year of resources in
2010 this reached 70 billion and then by
2030 this will reach a hundred billion
so a really a massive X a massive
massive rise in the amount of things
we're digging up out the ground and also
what's more we're actually using more
resources per unit of economic growth
than we did do in the past as well so
we're going in the wrong direction in
terms of resource use so we need to
start thinking differently about
resources and that's where the circular
economy comes in the sharing economy
comes in normally at a very linear
economy we dig these resources out of
the ground in a very pure state we then
we played with them and made them into
great products like we're all holding
like everything in this room like this
this that I'm holding in my hand as well
and then we use them for a few years and
we put them back in the ground but in a
form which you can't use at all so
there's something that doesn't make
sense there so you need to think about
the circular economy there's also huge
amounts of waste in our cities and
everywhere if you look at the global
food system as as most people I'm sure
know one third of all food is wasted I
mean this is this is not marginal this
is a huge section of the global food
chain food
system so we really need to look at some
of these areas we have increasing demand
three billion middle-class consumers
were into the market by 2030 globally
environmental degradation we just heard
last week in cop that emissions were up
nicked last year after having plateaued
for the last couple of years so is it we
need real action on that as well and
also in terms of the collaborative
economy we're seeing a lot of social
dislocation and unrest a rising
population people feeling they're being
left out by globalism and capitalism and
that the system is not in their favor so
we need a new way to connect with people
and for people to connect with their
local communities and we need smarter
more agile governance as well and of
course as I'm sure you've heard a
thousand times today massive
urbanization people moving to cities you
know all of the statistics already I
won't repeat them so with that with that
out the way I'd like to introduce our
speakers so I'm going to go I'm gonna go
actually in the order they'll be
speaking first so first I'd like to
introduce mr. Oliver Alberto Gonzales
who is a councillor of social economy
local development and consumption for
Barcelona City Council sorry and then
also my closest here we have Sladjana
Milosevic who is the circular innovation
officer in Amsterdam we have mr. Felipe
Alabama salata who is the director and
head of business development and
communications and external affairs for
SEC environment which is a large
recycling construction and water
management company and then down the end
last but not least we have miss Clement
malacara who is an explorer which we'll
be hearing more about for Shara Tories
and also part of we share who are
holding a festival at the moment and
it's a collective of people working on
the sharing economy so I'd like to a
round of applause for the speakers and
then we'll we'll get started with the
conversation
[Applause]
so álvaro I did introduce you first
because we decided that you would be the
first person to speak about this because
you're from Barcelona you're hosting us
today thank you very much and also
because you have an interesting
perspective on the sharing economy which
is an important part today's
conversation
Barcelona's obviously had had a lot of
disruption a lot of benefits from the
sharing economy but the Barcelona
government is really working on a very
very precise strategy around how this
will go forward can you tell us a little
bit about what you're doing that okay
thank you much James for the
introduction and thank you very poor
visit in our city in the name of the
well I must feel like Explorer like a
Clementine
even if I'm with an institution I would
say first that I have to start one good
news and one bad news is tougher the bad
news the bad news is that silk rural
economy which at the end of the day is
about sustainability it's not just about
technological change but it's about
about economic social cultural
consumption patterns change so it's a
much broader change than just
technological but of course we need the
technological part in that change that's
the bad news
so it's not just about technology that
would make a lot easier and the good
news is that this already some changes
going on in all these fields and I would
say there is a very broad phenomenon
happening there is a lot of people
companies project communities
experimenting innovating with new
alternative economic practices and that
means maybe understanding property or
patents or licences in a different way
understanding democratic or collective
governance in a different way
understanding profitability or
efficiency in a different way and
basically with linking with with mazing
history we have co-operativism of
collective action of commons governance
in
our societies in our cities so that's
already happening and that's the good
news so it's not only about
technological change but part of the
change that we need is already happening
and I think Barcelona is a key city in
that sense I think there's we have an
amazing ecosystem of communities and
peoples and companies practicing this
alternative economics it's not just
circular seven economies social
solidarity economy is community
grassroot innovations is a third sector
is co-operativism is a lot of different
different practices and what I would say
is like and especially now I'm focusing
more in saving economy there's two sides
of this coin when there is change going
on there's different ways of doing
things to normal but then sometimes you
do the things in the same way but with a
different name with different label and
trying to get take advantage of these
new contexts so for us our approaches
Council with seven economies a
double-double approach
challenge and opportunity we think there
is an amazing opportunity over there for
the common interest for for innovation
for collective action in terms of
innovation in terms of democracy in
terms of access to knowledge access to
technology in terms of use of of
resources but at the same time there is
a challenge over there and I think there
is also platforms that are you doing
business as usual which is not
necessarily bad but trying to use the
label of collaborative economy or seven
economy to practice to do economics in
an unregulated context and that's
creating a lot of impacts not just in
terms of fair competition for our
economic actors but also in terms of
housing market in terms of urban
planning in terms of workers and see and
consumers rights so we have to both have
this double approach take the message of
opportunity and be alert with the with
the risks and I think one of the main
elements and we hope we can talk later
about it is to understand the difference
it's not everything the same and we all
have to be able to differentiate when
it's really a sarena collaborative
practice happening or when it's just
business as usual and they have to
follow the same rules of us everyone so
it's a huge opportunity but we're moving
fast and that creates challenges I mean
this is really this is really disrupting
things quite quickly and we need to use
to be working a lot between government
between everyone to see what's happening
there thanks that's very interesting
Felipe Senora so you're working in the
environment space in the waste
management space waste water in
construction this is really the hard
edge of the circular economy this is
where a lot of it's happening how are
you seeing this happening now how is
this playing out across across Europe in
Spain and elsewhere thank you for giving
me the chance of being here firstly and
saying circular economy is about
sustainability is not a fashionable
thing is moral philosophy
I mean circular economy can be applied
to all aspects in your daily life from
our point of view we are a waste
management and environmental services
company try to maximize and the
resources we recover every day is real
job today the situation about waste
recycling is very different among the 28
countries that belong to the European
Union we will say that there are three
different groups with big gaps among
them let's say that there is and with
northern and Scandinavian countries high
rate of recycling roughly between 40 and
70
there is no landfill dependence
practically below 10% so they are almost
meeting the requirements that are marked
for 2030 there is a second group that
will be Central European countries and
Mediterranean countries imodium Spain
where the rates of recycling a bit lower
but still landfill is something
necessary the reliance on landfill is
between 10 and 60 percent and and in the
first world by the way recovering energy
by big waste of energy plants is his his
is a way to avoid in life in landfill
and there is a group mainly Eastern
European countries maybe Greece and some
other countries that with low rates of
recovery between ten and twenty five
percent and with high dependence on
landfills between having over sixty
percent in in the future these gaps need
to be closed even not we never reached
the common goals for 2030 which are
quite demanding by the way mmm
as interesting is we see very different
pictures so that needs to be a bit of
harmonization and some quite serious
investment in specific markets as well
yeah exactly that's fair interesting so
I want to come - come on team next
so come on team we had a conversation
before and I think everyone in this room
knows the importance of small and
medium-sized enterprises when you're
talking about that with the economy the
global economy but also what you're
looking at and what your report is
focusing on is small and medium-sized
cities and how they're often neglected
and how they are also vital for the
economy and also some of the sharing
practices they can use so can you tell
us some more about that sure thank you
very much for inviting me
I think yeah it's just when we talk
about sharing cities or when we talk
about smart cities
it's just concepts I mean it's it
doesn't have one reality and and there
is as many sharing cities as there are
cities actually so I'm a member of a
collective it's called we share and we
study the sharing economy and we produce
knowledge around it and I've been
working the past six months on the study
that's called share Ataris that explores
the sharing economy at the service of
medium-sized cities so it's one way to
see that innovation and and the new
forms the new models that the sharing
economy is carrying are not only
happening in in metropolises but for
example when we say sharing cities we
think about sale which is one of the
pioneer of the Shang City approach and
the way that they implemented sharing
sharing city programs was really
different was to answer different type
of challenges that other cities are
facing
for example the mayor of stable he said
that sharing cities was a way for them
to help grow the sharing services within
the city but also to face the feeling of
loneliness that people were feeling
within the cities and that translates in
for example a high suicide rate so they
were trying to tackle those kind of
issues and when you look at other side
other kind of cities like for example
medium-sized cities so in Europe it
would be cities between twenty to a
hundred thousand inhabitants those
cities they are facing a lot of
economical issues and for them and I
agree with you the sharing economy is an
opportunity and I think there's three
aspects on which the sharing city model
is helping those cities the first one is
that it helps the Racal is a realization
of value when you talk about
crowdfunding when you talk about
short-circuits when you talk about
energy cooperatives for example you see
that money is being released within the
city and that's something that's really
different from
additional economical development
approach that those cities are having
because most of the time they are
waiting for businesses for people to
come from from the outside through the
city to produce value and with the
sharing economy or the collaborative
practices if we can call it that way we
are trying to relocate value and produce
value from within the second aspect is
the aspect of a diversity of economical
practices and economical source of of
activity because we know that the cities
that have the most diverse economical
fabric are the cities are that are more
resilient and are the city that are
struggling less so the sharing city
model it can help us also to try to for
example empower people to start their
own businesses so it's in this way it's
this idea of saying one city with a
hundred or a thousand small businesses
is stronger than a city that has one or
two being employers and it has been the
case in one of the city that we studied
in Belgium so we explored eight cities
in Europe and one would say Belgium and
they were relying on one big corporation
to provide for most jobs and when this
when this plant was closed in 2014 they
had no choice but to turn to other kind
of initiatives to create value and to
provide jobs for the inhabitants and
they used sharing sharing services like
for example renting space in a
collaborative way for people to test
their products to help them become
intrapreneurs more easily and so so
that's really one of the way you can
help a city to gain more resilience from
the economical point of view and the
third one and you mention it and I think
it's the it's the social and the
environmental impact because we know
that the sharing services the the
sharing economy and the sharing models
are
don't trust their based on community
building their based on a peer-to-peer
relationship and I think that those
models can help also they have a strong
impact on the social fabric of the city
but also they they help us to gain more
awareness on the on the pollution and on
the waste issues so I think it's just
one way of seeing that there's not one
model of the sharing cities but the
sharing cities practices the
collaborative practices they have a huge
impact and they have a huge value for
medium and even small cities thank you
so it's I like that so it's really about
the economic fabric and the social
fabric really working together to create
this sharing city idea together I think
coming to Amsterdam and you're really
going to tie this all together for us
because we have a lot of constant oh
yeah and coming to Amsterdam we know I'm
Saddam is a pioneer in the circular
economy you know Amsterdam is a pioneer
in the sharing economy bringing both
these concepts in the collaboration side
so you know how do you collaborate
within the city to get there and what
kind of collaboration is needed yeah
maybe to clarify I don't think that MCM
is the pioneer in circular economy but
we truly want to be but the interesting
thing is what we are now working for a
few years on the circular economy and
what we find found out is that it is not
that easy to realize this system change
because that is really what you need you
have to shift from an existing system to
totally new one otherwise you will not
be operating really circular but the big
challenge is how do we do that in an
existing city where all these different
flows and systems are connected to each
other so we came up like one solution is
to smash down the whole city and rebuild
everything from scratch well that didn't
work very well they didn't agree with
that solution so they said okay you
should you have to do it with the
existing city so we were like okay
that's means we have to repurpose the
existing instruments that we have in the
city and one of the most powerful
instruments are
actually your citizens and also all the
communities that you have in your city
so we see now a big development within
the circular economy tradish transition
in relation to the collaborative economy
that they really strengthen each other
it starts at the design phase where you
see more and more code design
developments we are building 65,000
houses in amsterdam for the next ten
years because our city is growing with
11,000 people a year and these code
design projects are very interesting we
implement serious gaming for example as
a tool to involve different kinds of
people
in design process other thing is we see
a lot of changes in the consumption part
as well
mobility as a service is I think one of
the most promising solutions for the
next years because our city is growing
with more people so this means more
traffic more congestion so we are
experimenting now how can we share our
assets our cars for example and that we
try to implement these kind of solutions
other thing where you see the
collaborative economy in Amsterdam is
under financing Department
so crowds crowdfunding is for everyone I
think something familiar but we try to
involve it also in our city procurement
when we want to procure a solution we
don't write exactly what kind of
solution do businesses or citizens have
to bring us but we explain why we need
the solution and what does it have to
solve but we don't ask specifically how
they should do that so we try to make
these processes as open as possible
and the last one is also about education
you see that our knowledge Institute's
are more and more offering MOOCs so this
massive open online courses and it's
being very much used by companies but
also
by citizens to really get to understand
the big challenges and what kind of
innovations and solutions can help them
to solve it together in the city thanks
very much that's really interesting and
I think you know that really is a very
very good example very concrete examples
of collaboration and actually I want to
come back to Killington in that case as
well because I think what we heard there
is a good example of very grassroots
approach to collaboration in the city as
well continue our from a grassroots
organization but you're working with a
number of cities what's the kind of
advice you can you give you know from
your experience from as a grassroots
organization to cities and these kind of
things that we've heard about in
Amsterdam yeah I think the approach that
you have which I recognize as a
facilitator approach I think it's the
good one yeah because we've talked about
it before that mainly the fact is that
because we're talking about innovative
projects and because they have such
resonance on on on the city branding on
the image of the city and the way it can
attract businesses or it can attract
inhabitants a lot of cities are doing it
without thinking about the way that they
can empower inhabitants through those
process so for example we see a lot of
in the study we've seen a trend for
building co-working space or fab labs or
what we call third space because this
sounds so cool and this sounds so great
but the problem is most of the time it's
done without thinking about the
community that's going to live in the
Indus base that's going to inhabit it
that's going to create value within
within the space and most of the time
it's also done by the city so by in a
very top-down approach while at the same
time there are community within the city
that are struggling to make their
project happen to make their project
being being listened to or get funded
for example so I think the kind of
approach that Amsterdam has and and I
believe that Barcelona is also in the
same in the same mindset is really to
say how can we just be like operate as a
platform that inhabitants can use to
create their own projects and to create
their own value like for example I want
to be an entrepreneur or I want to be
able to
share some of the assets that I have to
other people to gain some revenue how
can the city help me to do that without
without being prejudicial to my workers
rights or the policy the police issues
but just just how can we empower people
to to create value on their own because
they will produce it for the economic
development of the city average
oh yeah I just want to contribute on
Dean's line and for us as our council we
completely agree with this with this
role of facilitation that's why I start
my story talking about what's going
already there what is going on it's not
that we have to create anything it's
happening but we as public institution
we have to be able to understand it and
be able to put the tools and the
resources so we can promote it we can we
can support it somehow and and that's
more or less what we are trying to do
like at least in our for summer services
- for interpreters of our companies that
people cannabis can get to know other
models not just the mainstream models in
terms of saving in terms of circular so
put all that knowledge and other tools
on the table and I would say in terms of
grassroots innovations of grassroots
projects - sometimes they start in in
that level but they can scale up because
sometimes they really they really hit on
the underneath ICT and on the way of
doing it I can give two examples from
from Catalonia from Barcelona one is
giving it is the is the the biggest
internet self-managed community network
in the world it has 35,000 notes all
over Catalunya and some rural regions
and we're really in the lowest positions
in terms of connectivity they jump into
the highest positions on the of
connectivity because the technician of
this community network of
telecommunication infrastructure and the
other one is so many ideas are renewable
energy cooperatives
it also started as a group of people
wanted to look for alternatives in terms
of energy and now it has 60,000
contracts and 40,000 cooperative members
and it's really an alternative for a lot
of people in terms of energy but it's
owned by all the people are
participating and they take the decision
together so I would say grassroot
innovation is just sometimes the seed of
bigger scale responses and opportunities
thanks thanks very much and also I want
to take that concept of the city as a
platform and I want to take that to
Felipe because the city is the platform
obviously for citizens but it's also the
platform for the private sector for
private companies in waste management
you know you need to look at the value
chain you need to look at different
actors in the value chain including the
city so how does that work from your
perspective well actually we have quite
the challenge in target for 2030 I
explained before the different
situations that the 28 countries
European Union countries are now and and
to close those gaps as I was saying we
have challenges but also opportunities
for development and innovation we have
to consider different factors the
secondary raw materials that we obtain
from this increase of recycling need to
be marketable I need to be self
sustainable in the market ground but
today this is a very complicated matter
because the secondary raw material
market is not at all balanced or steady
[Music]
80% of the production of recycling
material in in Europe is acquired by
China so China is the customer for all
the recycling production in Europe only
20% are consumed locally
in sued that for some materials like
glass glass is self sustainable as you
know mostly nineteen ninety-four percent
of the glass that we consume is is
recycled okay and paper on cap or we
have quite a good rate of recycling is
around seventy four percent but it's
quite condition by the Chinese customer
there is a group of materials which are
plastics that and there's a lot of job
to be done only seven percent of the
plastic goods that we consume today are
made of secondary raw material and it is
a long way to to go through so what
needs to be done by different agents and
stakeholders in these markets first of
all I think though the actions needs to
be done not only at the end of the value
chain mm-hmm also at level of
manufacturers also consumers and we need
to promote lean production lean
packaging production this is very
important then to increase the rate of
recyclable or reusable components and
and and and from the point of view of of
waste of of improving the recycling we
when we need some quietness some balance
for this market increase the
self-conception especially increase the
quality of the secondary raw materials
we produce and we need to decrease them
their dependence on on China mm-hmm
this only can be done with innovation
and technology development
with pool and push neo leases and really
aligning as well yeah in plastics having
similar materials being used across the
value chain for the way we have to to
give rewards to the manufacturers that
use reusable components and we have to
make penalties too
yeah and and also for the consumers this
pushing toilets regulation is lots of
different there's lots of different
things
thank you that's incredibly interesting
I just think and also just just one more
question and I want to build on some of
the points we've heard as well so I want
to go back a bit to some of the the
grassroots thing and the idea that
citizens are going to be collaborating
in this change to a circular to a
sharing economy so Janet just to just to
play devil's advocate so you're saying
you're getting all of the citizens
involved they're all helping in terms of
planning what Amsterdam's going to do
who are these citizens are they are they
everyone is my grandma on there is she
involved or is it just is it just people
like maybe maybe on this panel maybe in
this room how would you make sure you
can really involve the whole city in
this yeah so that is that is a very good
question and also maybe one of the most
important challenges because funny thing
is we have been special hub in the city
of Amsterdam where every night around
400 or 500 citizens come gather with
each other and talk about urban
challenges and urban topics that we have
in the city and this is a very great
place to have this conversation also
with your council members and your
citizens but to be honest at these kinds
of meetups most of the people that are
coming I started to see the same faces
so this means that there is always this
active group of citizens that are very
much connected to the challenges and to
the city and really want to be part of
this change and that is good and you
should definitely always start with them
because that is where the energy is and
and where you should really
starts to accelerate these kind of
transitions but the big challenge is how
do we involve also your grandmother and
all the other people I think that can
the best way to do this is to think
about incentives that are really
understandable and tangible for them I
gave an example this morning but I will
repeat it also now that is we have great
startup programs where one of them is
called recycle and what they do and the
other one is called wasters and what
they do is they collect plastic waste in
the neighborhood or invite citizens to
help them collect plastic waste so they
can make new products out of it and the
citizens that bring waste to them get a
coin in the reward and with this coin
they can get discount at their shops at
their restaurants and cafes in the
neighborhoods so this started to create
a very good incentives for also citizens
that don't have much money to spend and
never have possibilities to go to cafes
for example so they really got involved
and they started to see that ways became
a resource so this is a very nice way
where you can be part of this
collaborative economy but it brings also
something directly back to you and we
are now even experimenting can we use
this plastic waste to 3d print furniture
public space furniture to give it back
to the neighborhoods that collected this
the waste so this kind of waste is I
think the best way to involve all your
citizens in the collaborative economy
yeah that's great so I think as we as we
look at this we need to think about a
collaborative shared circular inclusive
economy may be interesting to share last
year we have been chosen as Amsterdam by
the European Commission as the European
capital of innovation and we actually
didn't expect to win the prize because
we thought we are not that smart of a
smart city with a lot of technological
solution
and everything being organized
technologically but the funny thing is
they gave us this prize because of our
social innovations and that we really
see this as an important part of your
whole innovation strategy so I think
that is something to give back as well
because inclusiveness is about the
happiness of your citizens and this
makes your city healthy and functioning
well so that's definitely one of the
most important things yes so maybe we're
getting to the core of what it means to
be a smart city yeah a very very deep
philosophical level thank you very much
I want to go to a couple of questions
from the audience as well and please
everyone do ask questions on the app as
well we've got some time some questions
now and have a few already but we'll be
but please do go on there and ask some
questions so the first one I think we've
pretty much covered but I just want to
see if anyone else has anything else to
add on this as well so you can can you
give any examples of tools used to
involve the community and decision
making process we just heard this from
Amsterdam but I just wonder if any of
the other speakers would like to talk
about any examples that they've had as
well or can you repeat the question yeah
can you give examples of tools used to
involve the community in the decision
making process so in policy setting
these kind of dialogues well yeah
Barcelona is a very important work
working line we have we are creating
metal sv which is like a whole platform
for citizens to contribute to
participate in political decisions to
assess and contribute with ideas and
hopefully it's going to be developing
and as working with develop but the
participatory body elements an open
government
in general and that's basically like the
main resource we are we're putting on
the on the let's say on the on the on
the website to work with us but it's in
general is something we are fully doing
in from the very small scale in the
neighborhood for small decisions and we
we have a different we are a kind of
gradual democratic system people
participate can participate in our
neighborhood in decisions for law
related to mobility related to organism
etc to the bigger scale which is the pub
which is called is like the biggest
action plan for the four years of
mandate and that's done also based on
contributions of population both press
physical presence a sessions or online
participation great that's that's really
interesting initiative anyone else have
anything they'd like to comment on that
yeah I think just to involve citizens in
in the decision-making process
you mentioned the co.design and that's
something that we have been studying in
the study is that is the way that you
can involve the citizen at a very micro
scale at a very local scale so you
mentioned for example of participatory
budgets that's something that we have
been exploring also and that's something
that's very like very easy to implement
you can use digital platforms to do it
but you can also like do it in a very
low-tech way and and the co.design
process which is more engaging and and
more it's a much more longer process but
still it's very interesting and
especially in those kind of places where
you have a problem within the
neighborhood like for example we studied
the medium-sized cities which are cities
that are facing a lot of the
vitalization is within the city centre
so they have a high rate of commercial
vacancy by for example they have a lot
of people escaping and and living in the
suburbs of the city so we we afford
those cities those tools of involving
the citizens in the co.design process of
for example could be a park it could be
it could be a street it could
for example how to reuse a former plant
or former mine and those sites this this
rehabilitation of process is very
interesting when it's done in a very
participatory way hmm I will just add
something
forgetting is very interesting for
example the Syrian economic policy of
the council especially related to the
promotion of the commons orientated
Syrian economy the one I really
contributing to the common interest we
are doing in a collaborative way so we
are doing the the we are creating the
policy of collaborative economy sharing
economy in a collaborative way so we
have a working group of around 5060
people which you have entrepreneurs
researchers activists all kinds of
people involved in this in this scene of
collaboration in in Barcelona and that's
what we have since whatsapp chats we can
share really fast information to
physical meetings or we organize some
conferences so we can really test our
ideas or get new ideas or make joint
projects all the time and that for us
for me for example as someone having to
lead that policy in Barcelona Council is
an amazing tool give me so much
resilience mmm that's great I'm just
using the platforms they exist like
what's up these things simple things to
organize people and get them involved
Felipe I think this question is probably
mainly aimed at you as well someone out
there is is obviously in a similar
industry and we'd like to know what are
the improvements what are the big
improvements in terms of waste
management in terms of recycling for
technology data you know the smart city
what we're here what we're talking about
how is that changing waste management
yes well technology for improving always
recycling has a long way to go but today
we could say that a improving efficiency
when recovering energy from the
residual waste that cannot be recycling
it's a must for instance the
conventional ways to energy technologies
in terms of efficiency you could double
and the amount of energy per tonne
incinerated if you use it not only for
producing power but also for producing
heat
which is called combined heat and power
facilities this is a very interesting
line of research order all the lines of
development can come through organic
fraction improvement you need to check
out from the the waste resources the
organic fraction because it polluters
every secondary raw material that is on
the waste so a separate collection in
prove separate relation what it what in
Spain is called the fifth container that
you are carrying out in Barcelona and
now it is being installed in many places
in Spain and around Europe it is very
important to get good quality and
resources from the rest of waste mm-hmm
that's interesting I think that the bio
cycles and bio waste is a huge challenge
and opportunity globally for sure yes I
think that there is
a long way for anaerobic digestion still
is quite expensive technology in
comparison to the cost per megawatt
produced but in in the last times the
technology is improving and an inserted
way as an alternative to compulsion
mmm-hmm
take advantage of the energy contained
in inorganic first fraction that's very
good for greenhouse gas emissions as
well I mean it's a greenhouse gas
emission it really comes in two fitting
all of the boxes
so what other question which i think is
a good question I think it's gonna
challenge the panel especially the
policy makers among them so can you give
some examples where local or national
regulations are hindering the effective
development or implementation of
circular economy initiatives in cities
now maybe in your cases I'm sure you've
got rid of all of those relate roads
regulations which are hindering circular
economy or maybe you haven't but it'd be
great to hear such an and what if you
have any any examples of that yeah I can
think of some of them I think one is
very interesting and that's in the
neighborhood where we said we want to
build this totally circular and it
should be developed this neighborhood
from bottom up so this means that we
really want to facilitate the
development of this area and that
citizens and stakeholders should be able
to do it the way they want but then it
starts to become difficult when they
when these stakeholders want to make
decisions about mobility or when they
want to make decisions about do we want
to park cars in our street or do we want
to have green and and nature in the
streets it starts to become difficult
when
they said for example to us we have a
much better solution for circular public
lighting let us do it let us develop it
and I was like sure why not because I
work at the innovation department and I
really believed in this city operating
system where you can really think
different about public lighting as a
solution but then I came to my
colleagues at other departments and they
said like no that it's not possible
because we as a municipality are
responsible for public lighting and then
I was like okay so this isn't this means
if we want to repurpose our system and
our economy and we want to do that
through collaboration this means also
that we must repurpose our own rules
that we have as a government and you
have to reframe these of you have to ask
yourself these questions like okay so we
are responsible for public lighting but
why why are we responsible and then when
you peel it off it is about safety we
are responsible for safety so if you can
find this solution for offering safety
to this neighborhood in a different kind
of way then why shouldn't citizens be
able to make these kind of decisions
then so it's very hard to stimulate
collaboration between governments and
citizens because we we don't we are
still not that's able of redefining our
own rules and we should really practice
and experiment with that more and more
and we are doing but it's a slow process
governments are operating very slow and
citizens are often impatient and you
have to find this balance between but
it's very interesting and I think that
is really where you realize the impact
and you're able to change these steps
and often it is not about law and
regulation it is really understanding
what you mean with some regulation that
you have or your policies that you have
what do you exactly mean with it so that
is a very important thing to do so click
in size regulation yeah exactly okay I
just
there's another question which I think
leads onto this from this as well you
mentioned you know this is about speed
and going far
so someone in the audience or so
Anonymous wants to know and do only the
questions have to disappeared but they
wanted to know about speed they wanted
to know about how you can push this
along faster how policy can't stand in
the way we've obviously seen in the
sharing economy huge for speed trap
transformations coming into cities and
that's had winners that's had losers as
her difficulties but then in terms of
moving towards the sharing this circular
this collaborative model that we're
talking about today how can we make
things go faster don't seem do you have
any Germany suggestions about how we can
speed this transformation up I think it
would be interesting to know on a public
policy point of view mm-hmm
I mean like we know that the digital
tools are helping just to scale up the
services in a very very exponential way
but at the same time it I think it just
questioned the fact that it's it's just
as you mentioned it's like we're just
moving on different time zone you know
like on one side you have citizens that
really wants to be involved and they
want results very fast and they want to
get rewarded for their involvement in
the life of the city and at the same
time you have people that feel not
frightened but it's just like it just
shakes up what their role are within the
city and and I think I don't like it
would be interesting to know when a
public policy point of view like like
being a city maker what how do you feel
you can just fast in things because I
know that from a citizens perspective
it's always need to be faster and always
like we're always in the need of more
response and more engagement yeah well
it's funny because sometimes I have
failed also the opposite sometimes from
from from this I can kind of alternative
economics scene of Barcelona sometimes
we've been we've been being asked to be
not so not so impatient with him we were
wanting to support and promote and put
resources on the table also so so they
can really scale
or yeah or grow more more initiatives
and also the times for like the human
and social processes behind all these
new practices sometimes I are slow too
so sometimes they got into acceleration
moments but sometimes they need to the
time is not some policies Sanders could
be kind of fast
you you just decide you that's a
priority you put some resources you drop
you make a trough some some objectives
and then you have a kind of the Machine
the public machine to work but then some
of these processes of gradual
innovations of involves community it's
getting to know each other getting to
work with new ideas maybe some some
ideas coming from outside and I need to
kind of get a local version of it so I
just would say that it's not just one
way or the other is like good happen
both ways and for me as a public as
policy maker now I will say it's
important to be able to understand what
is going on because I think what you
cannot try to do is if the water is
going that direction you cannot make the
water go in the opposite direction so
you have to see what is going on and
then how you can facilitate it again and
sometimes you are going to be the first
one sometimes the other one is going to
be the society civil society is gonna be
the first one I think that that's
interesting because that's something
that we have realized it it may seem
very obvious but one of the results of
this study is that we realized that the
sharing and and the collaborative the
the circular initiatives were very well
implemented in cities where you have
connector roles so you have really
people whether you call it community of
liaison officer or you call it
neighborhood managers whatever you call
it but those are the people that belongs
to the City Hall generally but they
really have this connection and so and
sometimes they have even better they
have budgets like for example in in ganc
in one of the city of the study the
neighborhood managers they are in charge
they have a budget for the neighborhood
for all the projects that will be a date
to the life of the neighborhood and so
this really fluid if I the communication
and it helps I think the rhythm to be
the same between the needs of the
citizen and the willing of the
municipality but I definitely think that
this connectors role is very key element
and in fact in our case in Barcelona
there was a very big political change in
the last two years and it's not just my
case in the case of other people but we
were before trying to do these
innovations and now we are within the
institution so that connection is kind
of natural somehow which doesn't mean
everything is done no of course not and
we miss all the connections so but but
that's that's that's important so that's
why let's say the the Democratic quality
at the end helps economy in that sense
and also very having important
connections with no university for
samples in our case working with a
diamonds group from the University an
expert on an economy is in very helpful
in trying to connect with all these
communities all of the available
resources and really bring in everyone
into this it's a it's a real it's a real
group effort from everyone in the city
Felipe before we go to our final remarks
from everyone where do you see the
circular economy moving faster and why
is it moving faster in some places than
others would what if you could draw out
just a couple of very quick lessons what
are they yes sir well what I would say
is that development and wealth has a lot
to be with the rates of recycling and
recovering countries with a high GDP per
capita have in general a bit rate of
recycling and recovery in general
Scandinavian countries so-so and and in
countries with we have below in terms of
development economical development
I need to have a long a long way to be
going through investment in those
countries don't have more difficult that
more difficulties is is a must a top
officer in the European Communion a few
works ago told me that they are
obsessing between 300 and 500 billion
the amount to be invested to reach those
recycling and landfill and target for
2030 well that's interesting I just just
a quick follow-up so you say development
level is hugely important do you see any
examples where countries are say
leapfrog to some extent countries which
are maybe less economically developed
but a really far ahead in the circular
economy you know is there is there any
examples that you've seen of that around
or is it really just the the more money
a country has the better is it circular
economy
well recycling developing a secular
economy is is a question of technology
and sometimes it's a question of
attitude from the consumers and and and
when people people have all the basic
needs Kolbert and they are more aimed to
think about environment in developing
countries not only in Europe especially
in in all developing areas in in in the
world not in America and Africa and they
are more concerned about all other
problems like have a good water quality
that in in maximizing recycling from
from their day-to-day consumption and
and and so I will say that in general
there are countries that have better
practices in terms of recovery in value
from resources are more developed but as
as a general rule I cannot tell you
anything maybe I don't wanna debate make
polemic but I I would also say that
sometimes and maybe that's streaky know
but like sometimes
poverty is it's related to also have how
many I said sometimes in countries where
there is people who lived from getting
use of of things they find in the waste
may creates a set of waste policy and
sometimes as Europeans bring in their
generators stop the living way of these
people like waste pickers in India they
stop finding the living weights because
we from the we we we bring from Europe
incinerators and then we don't recycle
anymore
so under saying that is sometimes is
complex and sometimes the zero waste
countries are the ones who have people
really doing a real economy a circular
economy of what is on an on the waste
this is this is this is really true in a
way I mean when when your possibilities
of consumption are not big you take
advantage of everything yeah that you
got an is true I never make mention
about waste pickers in different
countries especially in Latin America
and all the big cities and metropolitan
areas those waste pickers this is a
social stakeholder that needs to be
borne in mind when you design a waste
management plan okay and a nice term
then in some cases they are maximizing
recycling maybe not enriching and the
best quality in terms of environmental
cleaning the city but it's true that
they maximize recycling in in the way
for instance in in Buenos Aires
this is a city where I have lived in you
can see what they call through has
always speakers tornadoes tornadoes and
in injera for for paper and keyboard and
and they go building by building and
they have arranged with the concierge or
janitor at each building this waste
belongs to me and my family there's a
kind of social organization and they
open the box on the side take out paper
and cardboard and good plastic only good
plastic and something that is Mike a
table okay and after that they need to
close the bags and leave it as it is
because if not the next day they cannot
recycle anymore and this is a social
practice that here in Europe don't
consider but it's a reality here we need
to consider in other parts of the world
it's drawing here in in Barcelona for
example we have a parade with their from
the council which is with some
sub-saharan African people that used to
know that they they work in way speaking
for metal in the streets which because
the variable is a valuable thing in in
Europe is metal melter waste and we help
them to create a comparative four-way
speaking and they already functioning
they are making their living from it
with some help from the ecology
it's called Allen cop if the people
wants to know they already have a
website and they can that you can call
them they go to your house to get
materials you wanna get rid of they are
or started to fix electronic devices so
to sell them back so I think as public
policymakers we have the opportunity in
front of that instead of trying to
substitute by technologies trying to
build up new solutions from different
models now it's very interesting very
interesting conversation I think there
as well and I think it goes back to this
collaborative economy
well that if you're talking about
emerging markets as well and you're
talking about an established waste
picker economy you need to involve them
in the solution as well this is all part
of it as well we have about 30 seconds
left so I just really want to quickly
just go one time down the panel Felipe
talked about targets for 2030 I want
every panelist just to talk about what
their targets are for 2030 in terms and
I'm putting on the spot but in terms of
building this sharing collaborative and
circular economy
well actually I think 2030 is very
ambitious but we want to be hundred
percent circular within 2030 and this
means that being circular cannot be
decided from the top because we cannot
make our city circular it should be
really the ownership should be felt with
our citizens and with our companies so
this big target is actually making this
ownership part of the circular economy
and we should do that as quickly as
possible and I think the only way to do
that is if the initiative is with your
citizens and with your city and that you
facilitate them in it and not tell them
what they should do Felipe same question
well I think that we will achieve those
targets in 2030 basically are between
6570 percent are not yet defined because
some fight between the Commission
parliament and the council's country's
councils in general 65 70 percent of
recycling 10% lanfield a la villain
most and seventy and seventy five
percent of some particular materials
like packaging or paper and keyboard and
and maybe we will improve organic waste
management okay ten seconds ten seconds
then I get for the my announcement it's
not 2030 but 2018 I thought we're gonna
have a track on my hope no we are gonna
have a track on Sharon economy in the
sense we've been talking today we him
the Smart City Expo of 2018 so we are
gonna get be able to get deeper on this
topic and be able to relate it to the
circular economy and our another issues
so you are very welcome next year and we
will think more about 2030 in that time
well he's not talking about 2030 I'm not
either
actually I want to talk about tomorrow
hello
they're getting closer no it's just our
role as we share is to create dialogue
and and that's something that we
mentioned today's just to create a more
fluid dialogue between all the city's
stakeholders and I think actually one of
the way to open the conversation is to
organize meetings and to organize events
when we can all gather and discuss
topics the way that we did it today so
I'd like just to invite you all to come
and check the Wishart fest Barcelona
who's starting to tomorrow for three
days and has as a theme sociated and
beta and really this idea of how can we
all together try to think about what's
going to happen in 2030 very good very
nice very nice thing back there that
knit nearly nearly answered my question
okay so thank you everyone I just really
just quickly to wrap up I mean I think
one of the interesting things that I
found from this conversation is I came
in thinking we'd be speaking about
sharing economy circular economy
resource use as I set up at the
beginning but I think really what I
think is the key message that I take
away from this is actually on the
collaborative
economy at first I thought these
concepts maybe weren't linked quite as
much I don't have two speakers thought
the same but from this conversation
there's really a need for collaboration
with citizens there's a need for
collaboration between the private sector
and cities there's need for
collaboration across the value chain
there's a need for collaboration in
policymaking and that's really that
collaboration sits at the heart in this
transformation towards the circular and
the sharing economy so I think for me
that's a great takeaway from this it's
very interesting
I'd like to thank the panel and I'd like
everyone to give them a big round of
applause okay thank you very much James
okay that does bring us the end of day 1
at Congress brilliant panel discussion I
also just want to give a massive shout
out to our brilliant illustrator Blanco
he's been working tirelessly all day
creating these amazing prints that you
can go and have a look out outside so
please do have a little look at them
over the next couple of days because
they'll keep being additive yes thank
you ok right well I'll see you bright
and early tomorrow morning at 9:45 for
the keynote with Robert mugger
see you then Cheers
