Title: Towards a Circular Economy: Catalysing Action
 
Subject: Data Drive cities 

* Circular Economy


Abstract: 

In a world of finite resources, Circular Economy thinking is rapidly capturing attention as a way of decoupling growth from resource constraints. Moving to a more restorative economic system powered by waste management, green industry, and low carbon technologies has indisputable advantages. New models of development and business strategies are needed in order to address unsustainable patterns of consumption and production. How to accelerate the transition in both public and private sector?
Speakers: 

Burcu Tunçer
Oleg Sadov
Eduard Barcons Comellas
Eduardo Fernandez Giménez
Elena Ruiz
Jordi Oliver-Solà

Conference: 

good morning everyone hello what is one
SDS
welcome to the second session of the
circle economy track we'll be talking
about actions in this session and there
will be catalyzers speaking about the
last generation tools but just first
remember maybe based on the previous
session why circular economy well each
of us has a certain backpack of material
use material footprint and if you're a
European how many Europeans are here so
you have 33 tons of material use per
year and how many trucks will that be
just shoot
how many five well 10 trucks of material
that you're producing every year and
obviously that is not really sustainable
and it's not helpful for all the global
environmental challenges we are facing
and according to the scientists working
on resource efficiency the resource
efficiency panel of unit we have to
reduce this by 80% and just by doing
some correction of the edges or
incremental change it's not possible we
need radical change we need new types of
business models and exactly this is what
circular economy can provide us with for
example take your household goods like
all the machines that you were using
this morning and all the way that you
have during your lifetime they can be
maybe 50 percent more efficient if you
just use sharing if you use recycling
reuse and so on and that's exactly the
transition we are heading for and how to
do this transition the catalyzers
of this transition now I would like to
introduce them to you for this session
and first of all my name is Bordeaux
huija to ensure I'm from unep center
here in Barcelona working on sustainable
consumption production we work in the
Mediterranean region and work actually
with some of the panelists here so I'm
very happy to tap into their experience
and hope you can also enjoy the session
and well join the dialogue to join a
dialogue please remember maybe you use
it already from last year there's an ask
and vote app that you have you can reach
it at w w dot Smart City Expo com - ask
and vote exactly there so you can post
your questions already and I'll be
picking them up well as soon as I have
my pal with me so who do we have here I
would like to kindly invite our very
distinguished speakers first of all
Eduardo Fernandez Jimenez from orbital
probably you know the famous company or
in waste management please have a seat
Eduardo perhaps / thank you second
speaker the only lady in the panel Elena
with from for Atika which is a business
membership organization welcome is
enough then my colleague Jordi Oliver
Sola who is coming from in edit and in
led the spin of Wahby welcome Jordi Jan
we have our colleague Eduardo outcomes
come is it worth brings a lot of
experience from Paree Google a very
gather County here in Catalunya and
finally we have a guest international
guest
Oleg saddle welcome Oleg Oleg brings
really fresh ideas right please have a
seat Oleg is from IT mo University and
he is working on very exciting new
technology blog chains and
Internet of Things right let's start
what I would like to do is now to have a
brief presentation of our arguments and
then we will have a short dialogue also
with a joining our audience the first
presentation from Eduardo Eduardo tell
us what old one is doing in terms of
waste management what kind of new
solutions you are looking at especially
to address the huge footprint that we
are having please go to the yes thank
you thank you yeah
I am very pleasant to stay here for the
opportunity of us a company to explain
why not some successful case of circular
economy consists the my presentation is
a structure in three parts the faces
will present the who we are the second
song a business case or a sighting and
reciting no sorry some example of the
good practice in waste management and at
the end we have some conclusion of
reflection for all of us at the
beginning I put this DISA slide because
we are a global company we are in more
than 21 countries and we have many
different colored clients I put this
pieces like no four soldiers we are very
big company as a multinational the idea
that I won't present here is that for
obtaining a good results in circular
economic concept or in way when a smart
city we need to consider that it's
cladding of us have different
requirements and different needs and we
need to provide for them a good solution
for his problem this is the idea at the
we - so here we divide our company in
two different business line on the ferry
structure one is in urban services we
collette and with a script we call a
clean clean and with collections also we
have some green areas maintain also we
have Internet equal treatment and also
we have a new mobility solutions this is
the different same McCulloh work
company the idea of this is that what we
can do in this part of the waste
management sector is they will run
services I also hear one of our plans
for the name is smartphone and I invite
you if you want to know more about that
you can visit in our stand when our
basket in the small city Congress and we
are integrated different technology that
all of these techniques it's on the
market we are not development of these
technologies we are we have a by
dissolute and we give this solution for
our client we use different information
technology system we have different
sensor we have different communication
software hard and so on etc why may this
is because with this platform we
optimize our service and will release
the cause and we reduce of course they a
environmental a part of our activities
here you can see different is life
different people and different
presentation of what we can do we know
exactly how is the field level of the
container for example what is the best
route for hours collecting Road all of
these activities is developed by
information and communication technology
I will of course increase our efficiency
these services this is in the human
services but the oil principle a space
for add for the Alban services is the
mobility we believe that the in the nest
future more near and in the nest two
three years the electrical vehicle is
obligatory is one of the principal
condition in the urban services I show
you I have a pleasure to do the first
vehicle electrical vehicles one moment I
put a video
we can see this being selectively
wastage
a vehicle that cares for people's health
that cares for the environment
that helps make the city friendlier
[Music]
and respects residents sleep
cutting-edge technology to answer to the
needs of the city
[Music]
the best waste collection vehicle for
cities that are one step ahead
this vehicle is working in the fashion
event here in Barcelona and I listen all
of you you want to be cities in this
ESPO in our stand you can see and you
can ask any question about this vehicle
this is the another important network
but we have another important business
idea in the company the way streaming
because the only things in collecting
system do you don't resolve the problems
while streaming of pork we have two
different lines municipal ways and
industrial way this is day trading
macular company and the we are a fortune
in the voice man as many municipal waste
because we have clear what is our target
for the news future in the European
Union half a decision that establishes a
new rate of recuperation what a target
for us for 2030 and this target is these
three ones this is most important and
one is the winter tain
25% of municipal waste to be prepared
for reducing our weapon according with
that European that of 2015 we had from
35 persons in we another target is 75%
of packaging waste to prepare for
reducing recycling the same according
with a European data 2013 we have add
from 65 and no and the last one no less
important is that landfill in no more
than 510 percent we discuss this
percentage of municipal waste down from
45% is a media that of European and
member states
ok if we want to reach this ambitious
target we need to collaborate together
public and private sector and now I put
two two examples that a companies like
that we are making a we are working and
investigating for we increase the rate
of recovering or reducing the rate for
landfill one example is here glass
recovering this is once our site is in
the north of Spain
Santander and we invest with the new
technologies optical equipment or
equipment glass recovery with this
investment and we designed the model of
the process we can increase the rate of
waste recovery material around to three
points each year in this case we
recovered around six thousand tons per
year only what one equipment that we
introduced in our process for us this is
important because it's more efficient
for us we reduce the rate for landfill
and of course we can of the give a
second life for this kind of voice in
this case glass and another more resort
project then a nice plastic toil and we
are working during the last two three
years to obtain a new second life for
the low density plastic film plastic
because at the moment there is a no good
condition to sell in the market and
normally we need to send to landfill we
work hard in pretreatment of this
process to clean this kind of plastic
with thrilled with cuts then we obtain a
piece a little piece of plastic and we
introduce in one palette prank is this
plan is in Zaragoza and this is a
demonstration plan to transfer this kind
of plastic in in this case is not result
in insult inna Green oil the name is
crumpled that we can introduce in our
vehicles of motor engines with this of
course we try to reduce the the rate of
landfill waste lot of waste go to
landfill and give another value for
these kind of words but finish my
presentation I have a red flesh about
two things that we can discuss later
one is ISA smart in smart invest in
waste remain on waste collections in our
opinion and well experiences both things
are very important because there are
many no only political
citysens does the consider that is work
in colette ways
Oh Jimmy one of part of these ideas is
enough and we are with things that we
believe that we need work in the st.
areas at the same time involved and the
second question is there any adequate
legal framework available for secure
economy target in Europe we have clear
the target but what is the best measure
to obtain this target
this is that we need to discuss all of
us something's is very important is that
we change in Europe they a legal legal
framework for two things wanted to open
market for the second raw materials this
is very important because it's very a
complicating output in a market it can
produce and the second one it introduced
a new taxes law for landfill if we don't
increase these taxes is very difficult
to attain this this a detergent and when
this I finish my presentation thank you
for the excellent presentation with the
rush of the introduction I forgot to say
actually Eduardo has 25 years of
experience in waste management and he's
responsible for the research direction
in or aside and thank you for the final
conclusions that we can go back in a
minute but let's go to Elena now and I'd
like to introduce Elena in minutes she
has started her career as an
international innovation consultant in
Europe and South America as well she was
involved in recycling and waste
valorisation projects and currently she
is a project manager at for Atika and
she's working for responsible business
action like CSR projects right and
through several actions related to
environmental sustainability and another
doctor in our panel of to Eduardo
has a PhD in environmental sciences I
would like to ask Elena as a business
membership organization what kind of
tools are you offering to your members
to accompany them on the journey for the
transition and how do you make the
business case for them
which which might be a difficult one
perhaps for business so we do the case
from the environmental side pretty fast
when we know casi todos es un placer
estar aqui y for mondo part a este panel
con expertos a con toda esta do DN c--
a-- bueno puedes gracias por la
presentación yatra home for Etica for
Atticus association empresarial en
españa de referencia ante manda
sustainability' en nuestra mission es
accompany our sector privado
en la incorporation de aspecto sociales
ambiental su divan gobierno de trabajo
la parte ambient and donde los amos
Intrado en cambio climatic oye economy a
circular como los principales aspetto de
la sustainability' que important Alison
presses an SP context o mo sin pasado
trabajando con in materia climatic on
okay professor la la primera Cynthia and
intimacy medio ambiente
and septiembre don't milk in salah el
cluster de cambio climatic o en el que
estén presenter cincuenta una grande
SEM presses Espanola z-- y empresas
Internacional a key opera en el país é
que tienen un compromiso en materia
climatic ax que tiene una strattera en
cambio climatic oh yes Tammy MSM praises
Y nuestros socios no de Mandarin la
manera de nos a mandarin ayuda vance are
hacia la integration de la economía
círculo de souza strategy airs por eso
es septiembre lands amo say el grupo de
acción de Konami a circular en el que
canta mozcon nuevon presses de certeau
reimu distintos como puede ver que am
bestow la oportunidad yell business case
de la economía circular en su Jacinto
sectors
si si an acusado no
mutant numerators came on a Tiffani
quantify con cual es el l business case
the parasite or empresarial para man
sarahfey una transición a Fiona kono
para para avanzar C and Latin satirist
esta nueva modelo de aplicación consume
okay economy a circular yo no se la
commune Co europea dijo que que el
treinta las empresa podrían are are
coasters que su pony Nastase siento
miller's intermediate routers and
wireless thomas quantify como la
oportunidad de los cuatro coma cinco
triones de dólares que la oportunidad
de la siempre son los sevens in la
movilization
watson our campus our cuáles son los
objetivos que queremos conseguir que las
olas a rom en tonneau comenta bamos yell
acompañamiento que damos a la empresa
para man's are a co madero de konami a
circular bueno initial meant a las
generación de Canosa me ento queremos
salud our lays an tender coal SL
business case para para su fist in Tosa
Torres e a company RS tambien de manera
Technica Uriah denti-cal : llaha de ruta
para vans are en este economy a circular
quali solo Rijos que supone la economía
lineal para su distintos Cetera's cual
es o las oportunidades de una
transición a co modelo de konami a
circular cuáles son los los mode ellos
circulars
disponible z-- y que hace que pueden
Integris a las estrellas
EK permiten que la empresa pueden Avanza
a este nuevo Modelo yo ultima de las
aliens al final nosotros en Adamo's es
de espacio para que se pueden Darla's
Alianza yo somos el vehículo entre
sector privado
yo sector public o hemos participate Oh
en en las Hornaday debate a de la
strategy espanol economy a circular que
esperamos que a final de a neo principio
de la noche VNA puede ser una realidad
en al que hemos puesto both a la empresa
privada y hemos pour dial o god o con el
con el ministerio de medio ambiente para
ver y cual es on realmente
los puntos más importantes que debería
tener una strategy-a-day economy a
circular según el Satori empresarial
además en go participate Oh group Oh
del trabajo de la cámara de comercio
Espanola en la que también se pretendin
Darla's pistas de las partes para las
Impreza's para manejar a fee hasta nuevo
Modelo además nosotros somos el padre
Spaniard air war Business Council for
sustainable development
okay so organic asean empresarial global
tiene la meme emission que nosotros pero
Annabelle global esta urbanization
funciona con partners con national
partners and tours pices nosotros somos
los alleged OHS en españa que muy
interesante porque our final solo que
martin de alguna manera la guia de como
las empresas de berry Onam answer a few
days her Aoyama sustainable siempre con
Liguilla de los objetivos Desiree o
sustainable como una visión
allistic Adel okay Debra ser el
desarrollo sustainable yo-yos también
estan trabajando economy a circular con
su grupo empresarial llamado factored es
en el que pretendin tambien Darla's
pistas Alice M presses Internacional MS
importantes sobre como a bands are no en
este Modelo que parece sencillo che la
justifications evident a Clara pero que
inter-are las estrellas empresarial nos
tan in mediate Oh me me Ravi dividend a
myself Ramos tambien trabajamos in
America latina programa con el que se
llama el banco inter americano de Cerio
que se llaman CA sorry no lapse que
pretend a ser you laboratorio de
sustainability' para companion Tomlin
Alison presses key opera in America
latina e este año
estamos en mexico tambien
trabajando Intimus de economía circular
con Empress's con embrace our Latinas
que también es otro de nuestra Honda's
alliances so more firm antes del part o
por una economía circular l compromiso
eros agendas economic OC sociales que es
un past okay lands o el el ministerio de
v agriculture a medio ambiente para
donald SEO choten bill vent a que
comprar met a a toad Rosa gente z--
economic owes Yoshi a less en españa
para avanzar hacia hacia una cara mia'
circular he final meant a when I most
need Ola la suerte they staring a los
Congress horse place in Finlandia and
Congress okay to go Wharf circular
economy forum que tu lugar who neogaf
will premier a congresso global okay you
know a todo el mundo no toll of paisa
sevilla como siento despises train mill
asistentes yo el primer punto de
encuentro global sobre la economía
circular además estaremos en in
colombia también en el sefa que es el
el encuentro de las américas economía
circular en el que también pretend a
ser el primer punto de encuentro lr he
owned sobre Temasek oh no Meah circular
intone safe way no volviendo realmente
koalas on nuestra Sara mientras yo a las
olas alliances puede ser a Mientus no
chiamo contra see Diaz conocimiento
apoyo técnico s agin en toda todo lo
que se está siendo Anabel global in
logo tambien in corporal economy a
circular en en una misión mucho más a
listicle el desarrollo sustainable nunca
SE conseguir a los zetas deSario
sustainable a see no somos capaz de
hacer una uso mess officiant a de los
recursos Yared el el el siglo no de de
de la materia prima que estamos utilize
ando
dijo mañana tendremos una session en
este Minto congresso en el que nuestra
ZM praises del clustered a cameo
climatic o si reunir on yo ammos a
present our UN documento a KCI mal cameo
climatic Oh a la ciudad de la acción de
las Impreza's en las que obviamente la
economía circular esta presente por su
bin culo claro con el cameo climatic Oh
Buono alguna Vlasic fiona's que tiene un
impacto de reto the sorry el impacto de
la sustainability' climatic Adela
cidades tienen que ver con la mobile
Adad con como esta connect Sione's
infrastructure amass Austin nibblers la
energía rain / blaze oh yeah I meant a
no podium falter la Nova Fiona financier
film para para proyectos que tengan que
ver con la sustainability ambiental
tanto de ser Punto East a climatic Oh
como el punto Vistal economy a circular
e sin duda conseguir que los consume
Edoras y los ciudadanos a MPF inna tener
estilo de vida mucho más sustainable
'as caper mitten tambien que la siempre
en la oferta
una de Manos a Perdue una de Amanda
Alison presses para que estas tambien
integra mo de los de negocio mucho mas
Austin a blurs ways creo que esta aqui
the Guardium intervention muchas gracias
very much on time thank you thank you
for sharing with us the power of
alliances that you are raising awareness
I'm building slowly some partnerships
and well I think to know more they might
come to the session and now without
losing any time I would like to call
Jordi to the stand
Jordi has started his professional
career as a researcher on eco design and
sustainability of built environment at
the institute of environmental science
and technology akita in short and in
2009 he's an entrepreneur himself he
co-founded the ACO innovation agency
called in edit it's a spin-off of web a
research park he's also a doctor he has
a PhD on environmental sciences and he
has a lot of tools in his back to
accompany us in this transition what are
they George they tell us thank you very
much with you and thank you for for the
invitation
welcome everyone welcome to arts Ilona I
kind of hear that person is a sunny City
even though you're spending the morning
darkroom
I hope you guys have some time to enjoy
a soda city
well I will explain you the equation
journey the conversion journalism
methodologies and an approach that we
have developed for working with
companies for being partners of
companies in their way towards
equalization towards circularity to
making it more friendly I will explain
the example of the the case with it with
said the car manufacturer many of you
may have perceived that the automotive
sector is shifting its value proposition
the business models are changing and
that car manufacturers sometimes they
look like or they operate like other
other sectors like energy companies like
utilities like multimedia companies or
logistics data companies or they even
offering us services that are financial
or insurance services No why is this
happening why is this change taking
place so the automotive sector like in
many other sectors of the economy is
living a deep process of change and
there are many drivers for that some
might be that there's a new generation
of consumers that don't wanna don't have
the priority to own a vehicle but to
make use of it so they have a different
approach to mobility this there is a
production system deeply heavily
dependent on the use of scarce and
expensive raw materials so this these
companies in this sector as I said as in
many others need to rethink the way they
operate how do they make business how do
they align the interest of their
business of their new clients and the
planet as well an eco innovation is a
good framework for doing so after having
worked with several companies with this
approach we have identified some
patterns that echo innovative companies
share one of this is the systemic vision
because no ativ companies see the
value proposition like part of an hour
wider ecosystem of products and services
that serve the needs of their different
stakeholders they innovate with a future
vision so from the feature so they
understand their current situation but
they also able to understand what the
world they want to be in the future
which are the desirable future scenarios
and to use innovation as a path towards
this future scenario videos design
design as a strategy not as a makeup
design as a tool for offering new
products new services that fulfill the
needs of the clients and with a user
center approach so that delivering the
best possible experience to the to the
clients and so in last year in 2016 we
we made that a joint team we set with
green editin and said to work to develop
an action plan towards equal innovation
taking into account all these concepts
and say it has also some internal
challenges so the boss wagon group is
moving towards the offering of mobility
services car sharing car pulling out
autonomous driving so are some concepts
that are being developed and implemented
and also that they have some internal
and ambitious targets such as reducing
the environmental footprint of the
company by 50 percent in 2025 so mixing
all these external concepts and internal
challenges we implemented the economic
journal which which consists in four
steps each of them containing a
multidisciplinary multi-departmental
worship the first step of this
methodology which I will I won't go into
in detail but the first step is knowing
oneself so which is the current strategy
of the company which are the business
models that they use which are the
processes the activities that support
those business models we did the map of
the processes and we started thinking on
the of the user experience map so which
were the needs that are being fulfilled
by the current business model
and which are not once knowing our
starting point we started thinking the
next step on what's what's out there
so which are the forces of change that
will influence the the company which you
have the current competitors and future
competitors we will defeat the
competitive competitors with other car
manufacturers or maybe Google Apple will
step into this sector and offering
mobility services how can a traditional
camera factor compete with other actors
in the scene and after having defined
several desirable future scenarios for
the company together with different
departments different people different
backgrounds we started prototyping those
future scenarios so testing with doing a
fast prototyping testing how would it
look like how would it work with the
barriers which are the opportunities so
and putting it together in the same
session with all the representatives of
different departments so aligning the
vision of the different of departments I
haven't said that yet has 14,000 direct
employees so aligning the vision of
14,000 people is not easy as you can
imagine the third step is the road map
so we know where we are we know where we
do we want to be in the future so which
are the steps we are the actions we are
the activities that need to be
implemented in order to achieve this
vision in the future all these visions
all these actions were collected were
classified depending on whether they
interact with more operational level
product design project or service design
or more strategic value proposition
business model alliances and they were
prior priority prioritized and finally
the last step the later phase is to wrap
up and to translate all these ideas all
these activities these actions into an
action plan so we ended with an action
plan with a document with 30 projects
that are vital that are crucial for the
company to make their feature visioning
true to make it real we collaborated
with more than 25 people in the company
with seven departments and we say that
is the robot for resilience and
competitiveness of said ok 20 20 seconds
left the first the first project of this
roadmap is already being implemented
that is what we say the Second Life
where we are laying the foundations of a
systematic process of reusing functional
components of bakers at their in their
Elif life so can we recover functional
components and reuse them to new cars or
to new sectors to other sectors for
other products Arbonne furniture for
instance and how can we develop
alliances how can we have to redesign
our products or services of the future
and that's it said has started working
in this direction they are not alone in
this road there are many other companies
thinking or seeing that if they want to
be competitive in the future if they
want to continue doing business in the
future they have to align their
interests with the interests of the
consumers with the interests of the
planet and that equal innovation is one
framework one more framework to do so
thank you very much eco-design ACO
innovations certainly a good leverage
for us and it's not only for big car
companies also BMW or the German
companies are hooking into these kind of
business models but also for small
entrepreneurs for startups and we
collaborate with Jodi's team on that for
using this methodology to create new
startups circular economy startups so I
think it's serving different sizes of
companies but how about regions I think
we
should also hear from Edouard the about
their experience from Riga Dada one
region in Catalonia one County and let
me introduce a Edward he's actually
managing director of either cut
Sandra which is the Association for
rural development of Sancho Catalunya he
has 20 years of experience in
application of rural development
policies specifically in the areas of
business labor market tourism and trade
so we are listening your experience how
you're applying this concept at the
regional level thank you
I'm sorry good morning Munya I'm I'm
adore I'm from I will explain that our
project is is visit in in a rural area
so our main mantra is try to promote the
circular economy not in the in the in
the big cities this our our our image
site to promote the economy the circular
economy at the rural area Colette
Vergara and I will explain my mantra and
our mantra our team mantra is related on
that we should we should think global
and act locally so I for sure it is
possible to to apply so it's a pilot
project that I will introduce my
presentation will will have my vision
about a smart and sustainable
development later I will explain the
project and finally the next steps of it
okay so from my point of view we are
basic to thing and to to executives like
father like feather but they often could
create cathedrals on the desert I mean
the baton of process it doesn't works it
has to be implemented in its top-down
strategy
so our
is that on the ruler areas should be on
the agenda of the of the circular
economy and in the agenda of of the
different project of IOT of different
things that the the big city so we think
that Catalonia Europe are in danger of
of live again to be the part of this
intelligence gender so when we talk
about with we talk about our local
action our region we you should see that
we have an ecosystem it's a different
ecosystem from the big cities but we
talk about ecosystems ok so we talk
about competitiveness we talk about a
smart rural development we should talk
talk about these systems so our
experience is visit at the rural area
you see on the left the map of Catalonia
where there are different printed
regions
you see our region is Catalonia Central
is the nicest region of Catalonia of
course so you I invite you to to come
and and and to see and we we try we we
have some
Rural Development Programme colored
leader this program is around Europe and
is visit on to promote the investment
the best of the the enterprise so we buy
grants we have runs we give grants to
enterprise to invest in equipment to
invest in promote new newest scenarios
ok to promote the enterprise so what we
we thought is that we this gran should
have should internalize more adult value
how we talk about economical circular
economy
ok so we we thought that we
it was necessary to booth a green and
economic economy and circular strategy
so we should that it should be good not
or not only to reduce the the cost of
the the enterprise
it should be the best scale when we talk
about circular economy the ruler areas
are the best labs in order to implement
this strategy so we we try it and we
start with this project but if we talk
about circular economy we have learned
about a very nice and powerful as
casuistic from my colleagues on the
panel but at the rural area if I ask to
you how to implement the circular
economy two years ago we were the first
guys in Catalonia the first local action
group the first that we started at the
rural area so how to apply well we have
excellent professionals at the Catalan
administration's so we we went to the
general de Catalunya and and we went to
and we asked them how to apply we learn
about the foundation of course LM
MacArthur Foundation we try to connect
with them and set you are rural area
where you are not our-our-our it's it's
not possible to collaborate and in any
way we we start the project our project
has different axes different actions
first we have have to take all the
companies that has some grants some
implication with with our organization
and we have talked to talk about the
circular economy we have down coaching
we have promote eco eco design we have
don't unlock a lot of focus group
companies we have work with a little
group of companies and they are very
very good result results when we we talk
about the toolkit everyone in the in the
room I'm sure but about that they will
think about the magnificent tool of
Ellen MacArthur Foundation but at the
rural area there is no methodology there
wasn't any methodology so we started
with some colleagues with to create a
toolkit specifically from the rural
areas to work with companies at the
rural areas think that in our regional
seventy-five thousand inhabitants so you
should take care about our enterprise
dimensions so we create a toolkit so we
have started with this toolkit that is
unique it doesn't exist
another took it as our toolkit and of
course we have worked with other lines
we have worked with green territory does
it means we have we are trying to
promote a green cluster we are trying
we have promote landscape marks but we
have also to promote a counter
Premiership of course in the rural areas
are the best place in the in the in the
in our in the territory how to promote
to implement a counterproductive
initiatives and later we have also
promote this unique I mean in Catalonia
I don't know right now but some project
in industrial symbiosis project at the
rural area why not in the rural area we
should apply industrial symbiosis it's a
different scale from the big cities but
we are working right now with a project
about industrial symbiosis so next steps
of our project first of all fundraising
is obvious that this project should have
more from raising public and private
fundraising so we are managing right now
some potential PPP in order to promote
more investment to align the circular
economy not in the big city
I mean in the rural development programs
to increase our portfolio it doesn't
means that to give more bushes more to
take more tech partners and and of
course improve our target and later on
our aim is try to promote this project
to the different rural areas in
Catalonia in Spain in Europe because if
our aim is as I said on the beginning if
the rural areas are the best place one
of the best place or a good place in
order to implement circular economy and
should be on the agenda of of this topic
and this is what we are working and it
and it is what we are what we are
working with a collaborative way with
the administration with the private
enterprise and why not as I said we will
share all these results to to everybody
in order to improve this at the rural
areas thank you very much sharing
neither leader region I think I'm slowly
learning how to pronounce better Ghana
Ghana and we will definitely visit
actually I would like to invite you to
our project I'm very impressed with the
toolkit you just mentioned the switch
med program which is working with north
african rural areas for a corner ship i
think we are already a fan of yours
through this presentation thank you so
much and now we are going to hear a
little bit from the future from Oleg
Oleg is going to talk about the
blockchain and Internet of Things
approach as I just mentioned I was
looking into some material also about
blockchain and I read that HPR Harvard
Business Review was mentioning
blockchain as a big disrupter to create
new foundations for an economic and
social systems
this is actually what we want with the
circular economy so how can they get
married and now we have a better future
please tell us but let me introduce Oleg
to you
Oleg Sado actually coming from San
Petersburg Russia I TMO University his
main areas of research and development
are free and open space software so for
a Defined networks IOT cloud platforms
and kantam computing as well he has
participated of course in many
scientific and commercial projects so
looking forward to hear your project now
okay actually it's my first presentation
in this event I actually I'm a technical
guy from recession development
University volt and my presentation may
look slightly out of steps in comparison
to two and other presentations but don't
be afraid I will try not include many
technical details in my speech and I
think it would be a good reason to
discuss them in silence okay many
letters and short words about it our
story began
one years ago when we participated in a
large European project biotope about
implementing of some infrastructure
solutions for smart cities related to
implemented of implementing of Internet
of Things technology in smart cities
it's a large project with many
participators like universities like
large companies for example BMW and four
pilot regions in different European
countries one of this country is Russia
unfortunately Russia is not European
Union member now but we collaborate with
this project I can only some project
from our Ministry of Science and
education our part of this project
related to smart waste management
actually we must implement some complete
system including a lot of hardware
including a lot of software actually a
lot of information about general
situation about waste management about
[Music]
conciliation in Russia and
[Music]
in in Russia and in some Petersburg
consideration with the waste management
is not ideal and we may we trying to fix
this this problem in the current state
of development we making sound
development work about creating of some
software and hardware tools mostly for
for modeling of smart smart waste
management process we must make a proof
of concept okay
in our project we try to make some
platform for for communication for
coordination of fork of of different
players of this game its citizens
it's a municipality it's waste
management operators and of course it's
recyclers
so just a brief Luke due to complete
[Music]
prototype of the system we can see some
service domain with waste management
operators with small garbage beings with
a lot of services connected to the
messengers and finally we can see a
small box in right down corner in which
we can see smart contracts in a
blockchain
a many words game in in in in short
words so just what is it blockchain and
why would we try to use them in our
project actually the most well-known
implementation of blockchain technology
is the cryptocurrency
for example bitcoins that generally
blockchain is is a general ledger in
which we may place some records
corresponding to some things for example
it's it's maybe some transaction
financial transaction for so-called
cryptocurrency
you may have one account and another
account and move some amount of
cryptocurrencies from one amount to
another
the very important thing this record
records can't be changed after including
to this general ledger more than its its
records may be very different for
example it's may be so-called smart
contracts it's in some projects actually
it's it's real programs which includes
only the business logic without a side
effects which may implement a very
different business logic
[Music]
behavior so and this some hypothetical
large picture which may be implemented
for harmonization of current waste
management operations of course we not
implement a full picture only only a lot
of details but I think some discussion
with the practitioners in in governance
in business may help to us to for
selecting of correct directions of our
research so the main advantage of
current watch-chain smart context and
cryptocurrencies technologies is a
possibility of using of some lingua
franca for business logic solutions in
different parts of our infrastructure
for example we may place so-called smart
contracts in inside a devices inside the
Internet of Things and these Internet of
Things may directly communicate with
services with the citizens with a very
low cost for for transaction and we may
create our own instruments actually we
may create our own cryptocurrencies for
different goals for example for
investing too
creating and buying of smart garbage
bins with a different functionality
which bought by municipality or
condominium and after that
for example our smart garbage bin may
calculate rate of concrete waste portion
and after that get some cryptocurrency
for pain of that and after the
delivering to recycler
if you place a correct portion of waste
in your back recycler may return a lot
of cryptocurrency money to you all for
example make some penalty if you place
wrong sort of waste in your back
actually bye-bye this simple machinery
we may make some structure with smaller
waist and mount with a high quality for
recycling of this this process so and
actually very many actors of real waste
management game may be included to do
this this picture like in this slide
thank you very much for sharing with us
news of blockchains and cryptocurrency
so it's obviously another leverage for
us to get even more efficient we might
like to ask Eduardo whether these kind
of technologies can be applied very soon
or how do we like to take them up but
use your garbage bin might get more
smarter than yourself very soon and we
have a lot of examples I think here but
it's not really
some future story we already have a lot
of research going on even Ellen
MacArthur Foundation has a publication
about the use of vlog chain technologies
so it's important to follow up what's
happening thank you for your
presentation for sharing with us thank
you also to you all for listening what
we can do I think now in a couple of
minutes that we are left if you have any
burning questions you can raise your
hand and we yes please I think there is
one in the very front could we have a
microphone here
please introduce yourself and a short
question the questions here maybe you
can stand up
yes I'm Darrin casa from electronic we
use it's for luck it's for luck or like
I think the ability it's the it's a key
for synchro economy
my question is how you can ensure that
we use it's done before recycle that I
think it's also a challenge for us and
sure we use is always done before
recycling it's a three r's in your
platform are you assessing or you
measure the value of the objects are
there and you can decide when take sense
to just go to another user and use it
again for some years or it takes sense
to co2 recycling because the raw
materials are upper than value it has
its difference between the value of the
asset and the raw materials it contains
very shortly how do you factor in reuse
strategy in your scheme so actually so
my tail provokes that question it's it's
depends because because we may create a
different configuration for example of
small garbage bins yes in which we may
include different sensors which may
measure weight all faced and we may have
some RFID card sensor or we may have
some optical recognition system for
reading of QR codes and as a consequence
we may create some systems which may
make more or less exact exact
controlling process in some cases it's
not need for example when we place in
our garbage bin in some Park yes and we
we need only the measure of level
effaced we must control most of
parameters so it can be added to the
system setup say thank you I'm seeing
that we are already about six minutes of
our given time you in extra time but if
you like to join a discussion or if you
want to share more tools maybe we can
take one more question or comment
otherwise I would like to turn our panel
and just ask for one project idea based
on your experience from the rural side
oh I am NOT saying I have a question
okay different from yes my name is Jeff
and pops I'm from Austria from the
selenium in Graz and I'm working on Food
and Agriculture sciences so my question
is if anybody of viewers somebody in the
auditorium knows good solutions like for
example organic waste is a huge problem
because there's so much tonnage and it's
a would be a good resource for as a
fertilizer but in many cases the
separated is a huge issue like because
customers don't really know what is
organic waste and what can be done with
it and is there any solution for this
eternal problem
okay we are responding Castellanos at
swine I think it's okay I was stunted
soluciones but I proceeded the material
organic on el problema siempre Selmy
Moselle Kosti nosotros tenemos una de
sel composting an evil composter Knievel
local Casey a famous and asuna rallies
yellow tienen que ellos mismos porque no
e Mercado Lobo con la materia organic ax
k proceed a low recede OHS case L Seguin
cuenta por ciento de lo que estamos con
los Candela doors
Tammy lowest amo recoup Ronda en dos
formas como vo gas por una parte yara lo
que estamos ESO teniendo productos
intermedius para tenemos produce
productos intermedius que sirve and a
materias Prima second areas para otros
processes el problema en este momento es
lo que decía mi presentation no i
reglas Clara's de Mercado para incentive
our que bien lanty de Paula Conte
privado Poddar a poor Emmer kado sus
productos el problema de serie who star
tecnológica meant a solution male
pero economica mente es lo que tenemos
que mostrar lo s próximos an ela
material organic thank you very much for
all your inputs I'm sorry that there is
not much of time to discuss but I invite
you here and also in the breaks to
discuss with our leaders the change
makers the action takers for the
circular economy thank you very much
thank you

