Title: New Economies Changing Cities and Regions
 
Subject: Circular Economy

* Circular Economy

Abstract: 

In a world of limited resources, new economic paradigms are needed. Business models based on circularity, such as circular supplies, resource recovery, product life extension, sharing platforms and product as a service are gaining ground. How can cities and regions get away from the ‘take, make, dispose’ model and capture the full potential of Circular Economy? How can this way of doing business turn into the new normal in the 21st century?

Speakers: 

Roman Serdar Mendle
Koon Hean Cheong
José Maria Pique Riera
Christophe Ferrari
Oliver Juli
Nicolas Keutgen

Conference: 

hello and welcome and welcome to the
first session on circle economy here
today at the Smart City Expo World
Congress we're very excited to be here
my name is Julia and I'm coming from the
Ellen MacArthur Foundation where I
manage our network of governments and
cities working towards circle economy
I'm very excited to be here today with
our excellent panel of speakers and
discuss with you how circle economy is
changing the economies in our region in
general our global economy is changing
the take make and dispose linear model
coupled with the growing demand for
resources and the growing population and
accelerated globalization is changing
our economy new challenges are coming
everyday challenges that we didn't know
of before and we don't really know how
to handle climate change pollution of
our soil water and air unemployment
growing inequality and growing amount of
people that feeling disfranchised from
our society today and are living in a
fear that their children will be worse
off than they are and in face of this
changing global reality often it's the
cities and the regions who are in facing
this these challenges and are forced to
think outside of the box and think how
they can leverage their local context to
unlock new value empower their citizens
create a new new car new economic models
within their regions to address these
global challenges in the local context
we're gonna hear from our speakers today
on how they leverage the circle economy
model to deal with these challenges and
create new opportunities for development
and we're gonna start with the single
city example coming from Amsterdam where
me so Janna meter which from the circle
innovation office is going to share with
us how Amsterdam uses the circle economy
to empower citizens and build a more
resilient environment in the city then
we're going to move to a regional
perspective and they have Maria canoes
from the sustainable development
sustainable development office of the
Catalonian government share with us the
work she's doing together with Alejandro
from Lombardi on the European European
project of circa economy in regions
where they use the policy toolkit from
the MacArthur Foundation to assess which
new value can be created through the
stock economy and then we're going to
open up for more global perspectives
with James Pennington from the World
Economic Forum share with us how cities
and regions are working around the world
and on circle economy innovation and you
have in your phone's the app that called
that allows you to ask questions and
vote on questions that you think are
worth asking so please submit your
questions and we're gonna be looking
forward to hear from our speakers and
from you
thank you so Dianna
this is not this is I think your
presentation
for yours that's yours maybe you want to
start no
yeah
so good morning everyone welcome today I
want to tell you a little bit more about
do you hear me Braille I want to tell
you more about our approach in Amsterdam
and how we work on the circular economy
together with our citizens so I don't
know if you have been to Amsterdam so I
always start with this slide to give you
a little bit of an and a few how our
city works and looks like Amsterdam has
only 900 thousand citizens so it's not
that a big of City but it's a very
interesting City to think about circular
economy because of this small scale we
have we are like 220 square kilometres
and have a lot of historical buildings
so this means that we have a lot of
challenges of making our cities
sustainable within the existing city
like Julia explains we are also
addressing this big global trend of
urbanization and what we see happening
is that the city of Amsterdam is
currently growing with 11,000 citizens a
year so this is a very big amount so
Amsterdam has to also build a bigger
city so next to the big challenge that
we have of making our existing city more
sustainable we are building in the next
ten years 65,000 new houses how can we
do this in a way that we still stay an
inclusive City that it's affordable for
everyone that we say that we are
remained to be an accessible city with
bikes with cars with public transport a
green city and the compact city all of
these building stones come together with
our circular economy approach so what is
our approach first we started to think
what kind of streams do we have in our
city looking at traffic but also at
waist so we made in metabolism scan what
kind of waste is entering the
and what kind of streams also water
energy mobility and what kind of streams
are leaving our city and can we even
look and find solutions to not make them
leave the city anymore the interesting
or the important parts that we find out
is that circular economy and closings
our cycles doesn't always happen at this
at the city level you really have to
find out what kind of streams are
interesting to close at the scale of the
city for what kind of streams do you
need co-creation in cooperation with the
regional level maybe even national level
or European or global level so this is
very important to find out what we did
is map all the companies that are
currently surrounded in the Amsterdam
metropolitan area and we saw that we had
two big possibilities the one was
focusing on the construction chain so
the construction sector and the other
one was focusing on the organic waste
sector so the food chain interesting
thing is for example for this for this
organic waste chain if we were able to
close this cycle or this chain in the
regional level within the next ten years
it will bring us 150 million euros of
value every year and it will bring us
700 new jobs additional jobs so this was
a very good incentive also for our
politicians and our councils to start
working on the circular economy very
important step when you start working on
a circular economy is to understand that
it is about a system change and that we
cannot continue with circular projects
within the existing system we really
should find a solution to heck this
system so we said we should repurpose
our city with existing instruments with
existing things that we are doing
see if we can redesign these systems I
will explain your in five steps what
this exactly means and how you can do
this together with your companies and
your citizens so the first one is always
start with research and valorisation
involve knowledge institutes and and
address your urban challenges and find
solutions to implement and test them in
the city so this is a great project of
the AMS Institute where we use our
domestic plastic waste and we put this
in the 3d printer and made street
furniture out of it this was a great way
to show citizens that with collecting
their waste that we can give something
back to the neighborhood we can make
playing furniture out of it but also
these great city benches other thing is
use your city as a living lab and see a
different kind of opportunities of using
living labs for example festivals we
have a very big festival business in the
Netherlands we have around 800 festivals
a year and there's like I don't know 25
million euros of money that is being
spent during these festivals so
specifiers can be really considered as
very small cities they have a great
scale to test new innovations so this is
a example of digital that's also here at
the Dutch pavilion that really had this
ambition to become 100% circular
festival within the next 10 years and
they are doing this by the similar way
like the city approaches so we as a city
can learn from them what works and what
doesn't work and see what we can
implement and scale up in the city other
thing is look at your own instruments as
a government or as a corporate we have a
very powerful tool as city governments
and that is procurement so we are
looking and how can we use this
procurement instrument we procure for
like 1 billion euros a year including
infrastructure public lighting etc and
can we use this interim instrument to
challenge new companies to challenge
these frontrunners and help them in
scaling up we have this great style of
residence program for example where we
invite startups to work for months
in-house with the municipality and if
they come up with a good circular
solution we guarantee that we buy their
solution so you really help them to
scale up and they help us because they
are able to redesign the system starting
from a clean paper
the last one is communica munich 8 and
there are the fourth ones communicate
and learn and we do that in two ways one
is sharing all the projects that we are
doing in the city in an open source
platform we call it MCM smart city calm
at this platform every citizen every
company even also you if you're not
living in Amsterdam are invited to share
your innovations your projects and also
respond or ask questions about the
projects that are published on the
website it's an open-source website
where we really want to exchange what we
are doing with as many people as
possible other thing is urban living
labs like explains you should use your
city as a living lab but what does this
exactly mean and can we also extract
generic lessons from these living labs
so we always monitor and and implement
smart learning when we stimulate these
living labs because if you don't do that
then you will never be able to scale it
up afterwards and the last one I think
the the nicest one is have fun and play
in your city and what I mean with that
is with circular economy we focus a lot
on the negative aspects or with
sustainability so we should we have a
co2 problem or we have too much waste
and all the challenges that I also hear
a lot here when I talk to people but you
should also focus on the positive
impacts in the and the all the energy
and positivity that comes out of it and
when you meet people in your city that
have great ideas and feel this energy
inside them and and and involve them in
your thinking processes so this is an
example of how we started in urban area
development plan very invited all the
stakeholders to play the city and they
were all using the serious game
instruments to start to understand each
other and to get on the same level with
each other thank you so this is actually
my first time that I managed to present
within the time frame so I'm very proud
and if you have questions please send in
the app thank you
[Applause]
good morning everyone first of all I
would like to thank the organization and
the Catalonia region for roasting me and
the region that I represent here
Lombardy region the region of Milan
crossing me in this interesting and very
important meeting my name is Alessandro
d'arco
I'm a public officer in Nam body region
and I'm the project manager of the CSF
project I will share this presentation
with Maria thanks to be here and to host
for inviting me and Catalonia region is
a partner of the sister project and
Maria is a head of the sustainable
development unit here in Catalonia
region so Thea's a project we have
different kind of pronunciation for the
acronym of this project and you can
easily understand from the name it's a
project about circular economy and the
aim of the project involves sorry
the pros are que thank you very much
the project involves a different
European partners quite well distributed
in Europe as you can see from the map if
you can understand that this is a map
because it's not well done but ok it's
the map on our flyer we have a four
region number the region Catalonia Louis
laser in Poland then we have Eau de
France in the northern part of France we
have the municipality of the London
municipality and the sofa municipality
in the project and then Slovenia and
Holland in the Netherlands the first
objective of the project is of course to
try to make our economies in specific
sector in our region in our areas more
circular tried to make our economies
less linear but this is a very huge and
difficult effort of course in particular
in a nutshell what we are trying to do
is to find in our economy gaps in
circularity and we call these gaps
opportunities and then we are trying to
understand why we have these gaps
in other terms what hampered the
development Indian escapes of circular
economy and we call this why this reason
berries and then we are trying to
understand why can we overcome this
berries and so what can be the policy
solution we can find and we call this
policy solution policy options so then
we and in the end of the project we will
collect all these option this policy
option in an in an action plan one for
each partner in order to steer our
economies the world's economy and then
let's sorry
let's check the sector go back sorry
it's not okay
we are working on several sector but
here we would like to focus just on one
sector the textile sector that is a
sector that we share in terms of
interest with Catalonia and so let's go
quite quite fast to see some of the good
practices we have identified okay just
few words on this slide the textile
sector is quite complex because you can
have two different kind of branches in
the sector one is for the business to
consumer and the other one is for the
business to business so perhaps the
opportunities and the bearings and also
the good practices we can find during
our activities could be very really
different from considering the two
different branches of the sector and
then let's go ahead to the good
practices that is the that are the first
step of our project before finding the
real opportunities and I will just like
to propose you three good practices we
found in long body so far most
interesting perhaps and then leave the
floor to Maria for the Catalan best
practices the first one is a good
practices done by a company that has a
company providing technical services for
the nylon socks recycling sector and
they have a very ambitious goal they
would like to reach the 95 percent of
recycling of the raw material it within
a reasonable time and now they are
working on in this direction they are
quite clever and they are succeeding in
there
the other one is Chandra khat another
company who is providing an support in
terms of results and development for all
the textile sector in our region and
they are providing along all the value
chain this kind of support both for
innovation and circularity and the last
one is a virtual market platform that is
now under development almost finished I
can say concerning a visual market means
a place on the web where every company
can put the waste they have they have in
order to make them available for other
companies that then that can exploit
them for their business so this three
example very simple but I think very
effective and concrete now let's see
what Catalonia is doing at what
Catalonia found so far I hand you over
to Mira for her presentation thank you
Andrew I will very shortly go through
three best practices we have found in
the textile in Catalonia just to to show
different kind of opportunities and
different kind of businesses the first
one is from mango a very important
fashion manufacturer and retailer which
is promoting very strongly the use of
site of sustainable fiber into its
committed collection and also in other
lines and it has a very ambitious target
to reach a 50% of sustainable cotton by
2020 to the next best practices its
Phila to reserve now which is also an
important fiber manufacturer which is
built it my two factors pet recycle
fiber coming from waste management plant
and ocean waste and also recycled wood
line and cotton coming from yarn
recycling plants and they have the goal
to reach a hundred percent production
coming from recycled sources and finally
a very important institution from the
sauce
your point of view it's a cooperative
with worker and the risk of explosion
that collect second-hand clothes and in
order to reuse or recycle them
so after analyzing the best practices of
all the regions from the project and
also we have done a benchmark all over
Europe we realize that there are plenty
of opportunity in the textile those
opportunity cover all the kind of
topology define at the resort
methodology developed by del McArthur
foundation as Julia mentioned but if we
if we want to - if we focus into the
industrial businesses we can say that
the two opportunities that has more
possibilities in the short and medium
term and are those related to optimize
and loop mainly because their
environmental impact is higher regarding
the result of waste already reduction of
resource consumption the barriers are
low or moderate the level of investment
is moderate and it can be well
integrated into the paradigm of those
kind of industries and the replicability
is also high nevertheless if we want to
pro
now if we want to promote disruptive
change of the of the textile sector we
should not stay only in the optimized
and loop opportunities we should go all
over all the different type of
topologies of all opportunities we
should involve all the actors of the
value chains and finally we should
address also new processes to consider
resources and waste coming from other
sectors and other industries so beside
the fact that as most of the interacts
the most important goal the aim of the
project is to influence the European
Regional Development found already with
the work that we are doing we have been
able to influence different kind of
policy instruments developed by the
different regions first of all we can
say that thanks to theory we could
refine the London circular economy
roadmap both Lombardi and Lower Silesia
are working in their overall strategy on
circular economy and also thanks to Sir
key the city has fits a very strategic
project that we have in Catalonia which
is an observatory on circular economy
that has the aim to be civilized and
give currents of all the all the efforts
that plenty of institution and
stakeholders of our country are making
in favour of circular economy we will
present Observatory tomorrow in our
stand so just to finish as we have seen
also in the previous presentation local
and regional government we have plenty
of opportunities which we can catalyze
big changes regarding circularity mainly
thanks to our competences and especially
after carrying out a deep analysis on
opportunities barriers of material flow
but for that in order to profit of the
take advantage of our potential
shall we should keep a strong
collaboration coordination and coherence
collaboration between the different
level of government in order to be able
to scale up a demonstrative project all
across the log the territory
coordination between the different
stakeholders in order to promote strong
public/private partnership and coherence
among policies and roadmaps along the
whole territory and in a regional or
European level as you can see in the
silca project we cover the three aspects
not only between the different partner
but also in a domestic framework in
south inside our regional and our in our
local administration thank you very much
[Applause]
hello everyone
pleasure to be here today and thank you
very much to my fellow panelists has
been a very interesting set of
presentations so far my name is James
Pennington from the World Economic Forum
and I'm responsible for the work that we
do on circular economy in emerging
markets so I'm gonna give a bit of a
different perspective I guess one
because I don't work for a city or
region we're a global organization
quite well known for an event we have
every January in Davos but we also have
a number of other projects and also
because I'm going to give a slightly
different perspective with a bit of a
focus on what's happening in emerging
markets particularly in China and in
Africa so I just I just want to set the
scene from a global perspective when you
look at the real macro perspective
there's lots of reasons why we need to
change to a circular economy but I think
this is probably the most compelling so
as you can see in the last decade or so
we've been using more materials per unit
of GDP growth so we're really going in
completely the wrong direction if we
want to have a more circular economy we
need to be growing the economy and using
less materials as we do it and that just
isn't happening at the moment so we need
a big change just in this presentation
some of the messages that I want to get
across hopefully they'll come across
firstly this isn't marginal this is a
big deal we're talking about big numbers
here and big opportunities second this
is not a European only story a number of
other countries such as China have had
circular economy laws going back to the
early 2000s maybe before even some apart
from maybe the most progressive cities
such as Amsterdam were maybe thinking
about it but other cities won also this
doesn't look the same everywhere it's
really playing out very differently in
different countries depending on things
like the stage of development the policy
environment etc and also this isn't
always easy there's a lot of there's a
lot of potential disruption there's a
lot of need for collaboration across
different sectors and dialogue and
understanding and new ways of
policymaking and implementing some of
these strategies so first I want to talk
about China and I'm gonna focus on the
sharing economy because in Chinese
cities this is a really big opportunity
and it's
it's growing quite fast so just in
perspective when we talk about big
cities and Saddam we heard who has the
population of 800,000 in China there are
over 160 cities with a population over 1
million and many which have populations
over 20 million so just huge numbers of
people living in two cities 300 million
people have moved into cities over the
last couple of decades and also here's a
statistic which I just is fairly
unbelievable but in 2016 20% of global
GDP growth came from agloe growth in
Chinese consumption so we're just
talking about a huge huge number and we
really need to think and in China the
government is working very hard to think
about different ways of consuming now
one of these is the sharing economy
which as you can see here is predicted
to grow by 40 percent over the next few
years one of the best-known companies in
China in the sharing economy is didi it
may not be a household name here but
it's very similar to Oba and how it
works it's a ride-sharing company but
it's twice the size of uber in terms of
the rides it takes every day and I think
what's interesting about this and where
this comes to the circular economy is if
you look at the number of two million so
two million passengers a day are
carpooling with didi so that's two
people going in the same direction
sharing a sharing a ride so if you have
one taxi with one person in it you
automatically have the spare capacity of
the three extra seats in your taxi and
putting one person in it can be it make
a huge difference so MIT did a study
where they they found that 80% of all
journeys in most cities could be pulled
in this way and that could that could
reduce trips by 40% so as we go forward
and Deedee's looking at this redesigning
cars for sharing as we move to
electrification moved to self-driving
cars pooling of rides could be quite a
major shift for the transportation
system and moving towards say pooled
mini buses we could see traffic levels
dropped by up to 70 or 80 percent
according to some studies here's another
interesting model coming out of China so
these are Dhokla spikes enabled by the
IOT and mobile payments o fo and mobike
are the two biggest companies like this
so just to put this in perspective China
used to be famous for people riding
bikes in this
around 70% of all journeys were taken by
bicycle but that went down to nearly
zero over the last few years but now in
just the last year or so it's back up to
11% and what people do is they scan
these bikes they cycle them then they
leave them wherever they want and they
lock them up and there's been recorded
by Sinopec a 7% drop in the amount of
fuel consumed in Beijing but it's
because of these these bikes is what's
thought and there's a need for them in
China because also there's some legacy
problems with urban planning there's no
real the infrastructure hubs aren't as
strong so there's a big last mile
transport problem and also interestingly
government's starting to partner with
these companies to use the data to
improve urban planning going forward as
well this is another study we did for
the Chinese government with air B&B; so
in this study we looked at the effect of
home sharing around large sporting
events and found that in partnership
with the Rio municipality in during the
Olympics Airbnb created the equivalent
of 257 average sized Hilton hotels so
there's again this is not marginal this
is quite big numbers and normally I mean
if anyone was in cities after the
Olympics there's often a lot of spare
capacity hotels that are built which
aren't necessarily used afterwards so
this was quite an interesting finding
however as I said it's not always easy
and with the sharing economy this is
such a big such a big part of the
economy there's often backlash as well
so really I think to make this work
there's people have very very real
concerns whether that's labor rights
whether that's house prices or whether
that's just simply too many bikes on the
street and now often in China with
millions of these bikes on the street
you'll see them piled up all over the
place so there's a real need here for a
better policy dialogue for a better way
for these platform companies to work
with policy makers and see more of the
productive partnerships like in like
during the Rio Olympics there may be
some of the less productive partnerships
that we've we've seen elsewhere as well
I also just want to speak briefly about
some of the work we do in Africa as well
so there in across the continent just to
give some macro numbers as well the
middle class growth is predicted to be
123 million today will reach 100 at 1.1
billion by 2060
according to the AF DB and the
population urban areas is predicted to
grow from 36% in 2010 to 50% by 2030
so also we see a huge huge urbanization
trend and often a lot of these cities
aren't necessarily ready for that kind
of influx of population in from
everything from energy to waste
management to all of these different
areas so there's a there's a strong
drive for the circular economy in Africa
at the moment in fact we've seen a lot
of leadership from a number of companies
and as a plug for some World Economic
Forum work we have a meeting on Thursday
in Bonn which will launch the African
circular economy Alliance which is
headed by the ministers of Environment
from Rwanda South Africa and Nigeria as
well and there's a there's a really
strong momentum there in terms of moving
this forward as a key agenda in Africa
just to give one example we're working
on lot of projects with electronic waste
and I think this is just quite
emblematic of many of the issues that
are being faced in Africa so not many
people will think this but Africa's will
produce more waste than Europe in 2018
and a lot of that at the moment is just
going straight into the informal sector
there's really one or two formal
recycling facilities on the whole
continent and this has a huge impact on
human health you can see here some one
recycling a lead acid battery and this
is very much the standard procedure
manual dismantlement in very small
artisanal businesses with very with
minimal safety requirements so this is
causing a major problem to human health
but at the same time electronic waste
and many other waste streams as well
represent a huge opportunity so as you
can see 70 70 mobile phones is the same
quantity of gold as one tonne of gold
ore and the total value of this is
estimated around 50 billion per year so
really to move the move this forward
there's a need for a massive investment
in formal recycling and to do that you
need huge alignment between different
stakeholders so we've been working with
the Nigerian government on a project on
extended producer responsibility which
is when a small subsidy from the sale of
electronic goods substitute subsidizes
the recycling of electronic goods and to
make this work you really need to have
buying at the ministerial level you need
to have the companies involved you need
to have local producers local academics
and really
a strong coalition around this and also
the multinational companies as well
because as with circular economy which
hopefully will have more time for the
discussion in the panel a lot of this
really starts at the design level and
what goes into the products in the first
place and that can't be ignored so for
the for the World Economic Forum what
we're doing about this we've created the
platform for accelerating the circular
economy
it's co-chaired by the organization's
you'll see on here and what it is is a
one stage it's a networking organization
which really brings together at the
leadership level all of the major
stakeholders from public private and
international organizations and then
it's a project accelerator which works
in countries to bring forward
high-impact projects so we worked with
the Chinese government on their sharing
economy policy we're also working in
Nigeria and in Rwanda on electronic
waste and on another or other issues as
well which I'm Happold to happy to go
into and so here is a list of all of the
members of the platform so far we meet
once a year at Davos so one of the
benefits of this is it's it's really at
the CEO and leadership level which means
that all once there's been a decision
made there a lot of these organizations
a lot of the government's really sort of
come into line and get something moving
and I think also just looking at the
list of some of the companies here of
some of the government's here of some of
the organizations you can also see as I
said at the beginning this isn't
marginal all of these people are really
paying attention to this and looking at
how we can move this forward together
and happy to answer any questions about
this and speak about how other companies
and organizations and governments can be
involved thank you very much
[Applause]
thank you really inspiring presentations
and I missed each time how much we have
to learn from your experience working
with this everyday I'm sure we all have
lots of questions but I'm gonna start
and then open up to the floor so Jenna
so Jenna my first question would be to
you you meant you finished your talk on
this like very positive and energetic
impact of the circle economy in the city
could you share with us some of the
examples of how you already see the surf
economy positive impact on city and life
in Amsterdam I think I have a great
example I think the best way to involve
your citizens is to provide them with
tools and instruments that they can use
but also to think about incentives to
really stimulate them to be part of this
transition a great example in Amsterdam
is called wasted and there are we
invented we started a project where we
invited all the citizens in the
neighborhood to collect their plastic
waste as you saw at the 3d printing
example but the moment they brought the
waste to the to the hub they got a coin
in reward back for it I think we have
these similar projects also in other
cities maybe also in your city but that
is very interesting because suddenly
these citizens got an incentive to be to
bring this waste and because they got to
be this coin discount in their
supermarkets and in their cafes and
restaurants in the neighborhood so it
was also helping the local economy at
the same time so this is a very good
example where you can have this
win-win-win situation
that can I add something extra difficult
part became when suddenly people started
to steal plastic waste from each other
so it even got to extreme so then you
have different kind of regulation
because you cannot enter a hotel lobby
and collect their all the plastic waste
that they just suddenly unpacked
mattresses or something so that was
happening but that is very positive
because people really started to see
waste as a resource and I think that is
what we want to achieve thank you thanks
it's really interesting Alejandra and
Miriam you told this like amazing story
of all these regions coming together and
working on the syrup economy what is
next what what is the next step for this
project next the next steps are further
for the moment to complement with more
opportunities and more barriers and to
do it for all the sectors you have seen
on the slides and then the time would be
to pre arise the opportunities in order
to be able to characterize each sector
not four in each region but in the whole
Europe and afterwards to identify
policies in order to overcome barriers
and to hamper the opportunity to find
and finally and as we mentioned the
point is to develop an ambitious roadmap
in order to scale up policies all across
the regions and across Europe and it's
important for us also to mention that we
have been using at the beginning the
methodology of the toolkit for policy
makers which has been developed by the
Lima Castle Foundation which allows you
to quantify benefits of the circular
economy policies but also during the
project we are thinking on complementing
this methodology and adapting to all the
different kind of situations our level
of government so we think this could be
also an important result of the project
I want one thing more one more thing
okay we are we you we use the tool of
the Ellen MacArthur Foundation at what
is important to emphasize in terms of
collaboration among region is that the
methodology we decide to develop
foresees a kind of cross regional
analysis once we have detected well once
we have mapped all the best practices
and all the opportunities in the
different region regions or areas we are
going to do a kind of exchange of
experiences and kind of cross to see if
something that is known well known for
me it's not it's not known from another
region or in another area and so finding
other gaps in another region that
perhaps is not to get for me in long
body but here in Catalonia is a gap so
we produce a kind of adapted to love for
our project helped by our technical
Milano and the CNF that is this national
research center of cross regional
analysis among partners all right thank
you and then James you have talked about
so many things that happening in the
circle economy around the world really
inspiring
what are they friends going forward what
can we keep our eyes open for in the
next couple of years yeah thanks so as I
said I think that the effect the sharing
economy has is going to be massive
especially in China
I mean it's being pushed by the
government hugely there also there's a
lot of innovation and startups around
this so in China if you go to a
basketball court you can rent a
basketball for for 20 minutes for 30
minutes to play basketball if you go to
a mall you can rent an umbrella for five
cents for an hour or something if it's
raining and this is going into every
product category I think also speaking
about China one of the big things is
around ecommerce like I said 20 percent
of global growth
comes from Chinese consumption and a
huge amount of that is online commerce
as well and actually some of the
companies are getting smart too these
circular economy approaches so teeth on
which is a Cool J decom which is one of
the one of the biggest e-commerce firms
after Alibaba they are now starting to
do a service where they'll pick up the
packaging so after they send it to you
they'll come back again and they'll have
a reverse logistics system to pick up
all of the packaging also companies like
Huawei and working with ding dong to
pick up the old phones as well and bring
them back for recycling so actually this
logistics network which is going one way
I think we're starting to see that
playing the other way in China I've but
I think that hasn't necessarily happened
here but maybe someone is to speak to
Amazon about what they can do on those
on those kind of things I mean also just
one more point on the the global aspects
of this I think that it's so important
obviously to look at this from a cities
and regions perspective and see what you
could do within the cities and region if
we're talking about moving to a circular
economy in general we have a global
economy we have global value chains we
have products that come from you know
that have made in China or designed in
the US and then sold in Europe or sold
elsewhere and there does need to be this
link between them so the project we're
working on around a waist we're working
with a series of global manufacturers
who are interested in really helping in
this topic HP Philips Dell Microsoft
companies that are really leading the
way and what it means to be a circular
company and and really care about the
end but they're also thinking about the
design of their products they're also
thinking about the business models we're
also working in China with a number of
number of companies about how they can
have more recycled content into their
products in the first place as well
because that's where products are
manufactured so I think and you know
Ellen MacArthur Foundation does this and
all of their products projects and all
of their thinking as well having that
global perspective even if it's seen as
a regional issue is very important thank
you for that and now after we discussed
all the great opportunities and we have
a challenging question coming from the
audience and that's asking you what are
the challenges of the Scirocco economy
at the moment
well wants to take it first vagina
what I found most challenging Amsterdam
because we are doing now this program
for one half year and some of the
concepts and business models are now
being tested and you want to scale up
but the difficult part is that at this
moment the technological innovations are
developing so quickly that if we now
make some decisions in scaling up how do
we prevent ourselves that will lock
ourselves in and that in five or seven
years the technology is developed so far
that we can maybe even think about more
high value solutions to give you an
example where this is now a big
discussion we are building an area in
the north part of Amsterdam where we
want to implement new type of sanitation
where we can extract more nutrients and
and also energy we can make energy out
of our wastewater so we want to build a
bio refinery in this neighborhood so
that we can give gas back to the
neighborhood but the technologies which
nutrient recovery is developing very
quickly so this means that we can maybe
even think in five or seven years of
much more high value solutions but at
the same time you are now making
decisions for infrastructure under the
ground and even thinking about can be
tested now and five hundred households
but maybe skill up to five thousand etc
but are we should we really do it or is
it maybe not the right moment and should
we have these more options because we
already locked ourselves one time before
in in depth with our incineration
companies we built these incineration
plants in Amsterdam a few years ago but
with the idea we should incinerate waste
and we make energy out of it so that
sounds like a good solution but now we
want to become a circular City
incinerating waste is not that of high
value but we have this these plants in
the
in the city and they have to continue
incinerating because of the business
model that has been calculated once they
have to continue doing that for the next
ten years so at this moment we are
importing waste from the UK and from
Italy to continue incinerating but that
is that is not also not a good message
to our citizens as well so we are very
much searching like what kind of
decisions can you make for scaling up
but to prevent yourself from locking in
and how can we approach this temporary
and flexibility also in our urban plans
and urban development so long answer but
but a good one my answer will be shorter
of course we have a lot of challenges in
my region but we have a lot of best
practices as well so we are quite
beatriz in some activities concerning
circular economy waste management and
and so on but so the first the main
challenge a challenge we have I think is
the lack of strategy the roadmap I don't
know how to call it but in order to tune
and to reduce the effort we have to do
to do to have a step ahead in the
circularity so we really need a common
strategy an overall strategy that can
act on all these sectors and all the
also the social reality of our region so
this is our first challenge I think I
couldn't find both answers and I would
say that scalability is the key point
now to go from innovative really great
the positive projects to to replicate
all over the sector's all over the
territory that's the key point and also
one of the the barriers are the core
coherent maybe having a cross-cutting
strategy it helps it helps to put more
currents in the especially in the
different policies because
sometimes economical policies or
regulation are not aligned with circular
economy model and we have some currents
in our same government or in different
level of Gorgo of government so we
should not work on our own policy from
our own perspective sectoral perspective
but try to introduce your clarity in all
the sectoral policies in each government
thank you yeah I think I definitely
agree with all of the points and I think
especially on the point about scale as
well so I think this there's a real need
to scale just thinking about some of the
contexts that I was speaking about
particularly in some of the countries we
work in in Africa so talking Nigeria
Rwanda some of these places there's a
need for huge huge investment a huge
investment in recycling infrastructure
and you know this and I get there as
well there's a need for the right policy
environment where people feel they can
invest and also to get there you need a
lot of people to act together at the
same time so you need like really mass
coordination of different stakeholders I
think and another collaboration across
these different stakeholders to really
get there I mean I would say that
working in the World Economic Forum but
I do believe that's the case I think so
so investment is one policy is the other
one I mean looking at some of the work
in China there's there's a number of
different policy measures which could be
taken which would incentivize say more
recycled material in products and it's
not always easy and it's and you know
you have to have a dialogue and
understand why certain rules are in
place from policy makers point of view
and why that would also how that could
incentivize companies to do that we had
to have this dialogue and I'm really
work out the right regulatory system and
I think in a lot of countries policy
makers apart from obviously people we
have we have here of course haven't
necessarily been thinking from a
circular perspective for say in the last
30 40 years making some of these these
policies and wastes is also often seen
as waste and something to sort of get
rid of in any any extent and not
necessarily of something which can be a
resource going back into
economy so changing those mindsets are
quite important and then as I mentioned
before as well design issues especially
when you're looking at emerging markets
I mean things like certain materials
such as I don't know sachets for a hair
pair shampoo is something like this or
some of these small format projects the
Ellen MacArthur Foundation new plastics
economy which we we were involved in for
a number of years has looked into this
which are exported to countries without
a functioning waste system are basically
never going to be recycled and probably
never going to even be captured they
have no value that probably end up
they'll probably end up in the ocean at
some point so you know there's there's
certain things when we're when companies
are exported to certain countries need
to think about some of the design of
some of these products as well and what
the countries can manage with and then
you need to have the investment in those
countries as well to have the
infrastructure to deal with some of
their center to capture some of the
value okay thank you any questions from
the audience I think we have time for
one or two questions no all right well
then I think we can maybe ask some of
you just somewhere closing remarks
closing comments what are the next
things you would like to communicate
from encourage people to go forward and
start working on the circular economy
I think it I really believe circular
economy and it's this transition can
also bring a lot of fun and inspiration
and what I see happening a lot in
Amsterdam is when I organize sessions
that very different sectors have similar
challenges and but that they never met
each other and never have been sitting
at the same table I think it is very
interesting to also look behind your
existing behind your the sector that you
are working on and see what you can
learn from other sectors and that can
inspire you to implement it there as
well and other thing is that citizens
have a great energy and a great power if
you if you facilitate them and give them
the right tools and instruments to be
part of the circular economy I think a
lot of what should happen is a cultural
change and I think what we definitely
never forget is to involve our users our
citizens in this transition so that is
definitely my advice otherwise you can
develop a lot of plans top-down but no
one will feel anything
for these plans and it will just fade
away so that's my advice it's not an
easy idea to express in English for me
but I will try sometimes circular
economy seems to be a kind of slogan
that we put on old policies in
particular in European Union policies
that are still alive since the 90s or
the early know 20 years ago but what we
understood and we have to understand I
think everyone here notice is - is that
this new slogan can really help you to
understand that there is something
different from before now today because
this new slogan can stimulate you to
understand that you have to you are
obliged to run an overall approach to
your actions in the different sectors in
a certain in terms of social actions and
economic action so you need to try to
merge all the effort you did in the past
in a common strategy that we are lucky
now in my region for instance but ok so
this is the added value of a common name
for perhaps a group of all the policies
for extreme a certain kind of from a
certain point of view no no I don't know
if I'm clear but ok thank you I would
like to just to point out that there are
plenty of best practices all over the
wall so we should take advantage of
those best practices not to reinvent the
wheel and then to scale up and learn one
from each other try to share information
resources products everything and put it
together and try to that everybody walks
in the same direction maybe through
coherent and cross-cutting strategies or
whatever or like in event like that but
try to move everybody in the same
direction thank you yeah I think it's
sort of like some of the last messages I
think one of the things which I wanted
to get across in the presentation as
well is when thinking about the spare
the circular economy is to really think
about the whole picture and where you
have spare capacity where you can use
spare capacity and you know and just
with some of the China examples you can
see in a country where there's very
dense cities there's a lot of spare
capacity and a lot of that can then be
used and bridged by different
technologies as well and I just want to
I just I heard a really interesting
thing the other day which I just I
wanted to put in the presentation but I
didn't I knew I didn't have time but um
so there's a company electric car
company in China and a number of solar
power companies
southern China as well and they're
working on prototypes and what they'll
do is so as China was responsible for
buying 45% of electric cars last year so
globally it's gonna be a huge market
there it also is responsible for about
the same percentage of renewable energy
coming on the grid but with renewable
energy you need storage right you need
batteries you need something so you can
so when there's not much Sun you can
then use the energy from the batteries
rather than from the renewable energy
and interestingly a company is working
with solar manufacturers to to take the
energy from solar powers into all of
their cars over a whole city and then
when the energy is needed to then bring
that out back to the grid so you start
seeing this huge technology enabled
network of renewable energy and using
the spare capacity in people's cars to
then power the grid at times when
there's less renewable energy so I just
think ideas like this are just
incredibly interesting and incredibly
cool and it's a good idea of someone
seeing an opportunity of some spare
capacity or something isn't being used
and then potentially really transforming
a whole system from just taking that
small piece of a small piece of spare
capacity that people hadn't noticed
before yeah thank you I think we got
some really great advice and if I can
even try to summarize this very rich
discussion then I would say that
approaching the challenges and viewing
them as opportunities and design
solutions that fit for purpose and for
the entire system but are relevant in
the local context with a global
perspective that is that is the way to
go and then build a coalition of people
around you that can support and
collaborate all together and engage the
global value chain to allow scalability
and spread of these ideas beyond the
local context thank you very much for
this really interesting discussion I
hope you enjoy that and I'm looking
forward for the rest of the sessions
today
[Applause]
you

