Title: Circularity in the City: Opportunities and Challenges
 
Subject: Circular Economy

* Circular Economy

Abstract: 

Today, cities hold a massive opportunity for circularity. The concept is gaining traction globally. Yet, shared understandings, a common language and a thorough examination of the complexities and opportunities for institutional change, innovative business models and informed policy action are still needed. How can cities increase the scale of circular efforts beyond individual initiatives? How can they boost circularity’s impacts and benefits?

Speakers: 

Maria Colantoni
Matthew Fraser
Oihana Blanco Mendizabal
Bruno Hervet

Conference: 
please have your seat and welcome to
this afternoon session when we are where
we are talking about opportunities and
challenges when talking about cities
transitioning towards the circle economy
we have here our speakers please join me
we have today Oriana
from in the Basque oh yeah Ana Blanco
will will talk about the the mainly from
the perspective of an institution public
private institution which is working on
innovation within the companies and
within the administration too we have
here bruno run away from suez he will
give us a perspective of the
implementation in a city and also
matthew fraser from circle economy with
a great experience also in investigating
and research on job and skills and the
implementation in this of the circular
economy in different environments so
please Oyama
yeah okay good afternoon to y'all I'm
gonna try to be specific in my messages
try to be as quick as possible hopefully
you won't get sleep and hopefully you
will have a few questions afterwards we
will leave a little bit of things for
your interpretation and and and for your
brains to to work a little bit
throughout the messages that we will
share with you so throughout my
presentation I will try to answer to
these two questions specified in the
definition of the session that we are at
and these to you I'm showing you it's
how can cities a scale of circular
efforts beyond individual initiatives
and the second question is how can the
boosts circularity impacts and benefits
just a short overview of who we are we
are the Basques innovation agency the
past country is a small region in the
north of Spain we have a big innovation
system public-private we are one of
those organization around 45 people
private nonprofits Association and our
partners are coming from different
worlds it's the public administration
its companies its technology centers
it's innovation organizations and we are
organized in different areas we are
actually working and fostering circular
economy from the foresight part this is
this don't mean that it's not related
with the rest of the areas but from our
perspective circular economy is
something that has to do with the future
so this future vision integrated into
foresight in so this is where I'm from
those of you who come from Spain will
obviously find these kind of funny we
are
basically known in Spain for being a
lippy
exaggerated and for think that we are in
the center of the world well it's part
of the truth okay this is a map of the
world something comic okay but the
reality is that we are small region you
have you can see a few figures over
there it's three provinces we are the
fourteenth autonomous community in terms
of surface so again not very big around
two million inhabitants you can make a
picture on your own of what size of
cities we are talking about but we have
a very high industrial concentration so
this is something to take into account
in terms of the type of price that we
are trying to develop from the
innovation agency of course as many
others we have a high dependence on
energy or material on other type of
resources and this is a constraint but
the cities are actually very interlinked
so when talking about cities we are
talking about systems it's not the same
thing to talk about a city which has
eight million inhabitants or talk about
small cities with four hundred thousand
which makes it a little bit narrow in
terms of scope to try to promote
projects that are already related to
that specific and geographic area that
is why the approach in terms of how to
foster the circular economy from an
innovation agency which is regional it
can be focused only in small cities but
trying to work in cities with this
territorial approach a little bit
broader ok how do we foster surco
economy okay this is the this picture is
part of publication of our very
internationally known consultancy
company and it's basically okay
I need more wool I can feed these sheep
to make it grow big and big and big and
big and get more rule but is that really
what we want I mean this is a kind of a
little monster so is this really getting
value out of it I mean are we do we want
to do anything just to get the best out
of it so how do we get more with the
same resources that we have or with less
resources we can feed ships and make
them big like this or we can do it
somewhere in another way so from an
innovation agency perspective obviously
innovation is the key and why because if
we go back to that picture that picture
is basically resource efficiency but
where is innovation when we only talk
about resource efficiency this is
something that we think it's missing in
many of our dialogues and in many of our
projects in the products that we develop
I'm talking about projects in a global
way so innovation needs to be holistic
also this is a word very used in many
conferences but yes it makes sense it
has to be elastic even though it's
difficult so we need technology
technological innovation we need
technology the one that is out there
that is basic that is needed but
technological innovation is nothing
without non technological innovation and
it's nothing without behavioral changes
so we need to combine all three visions
otherwise it's from our perspective is
kind of complicated to move ahead and
this is how we this is how we try to do
it this is our proposal we try to focus
in projects
in cities from a territorial perspective
but also trying to develop projects
related to industry as I said before we
have a very high industrial
concentration so even though we promote
projects in the cities we kind of forget
about the industry and the impact that
the industry has in the indie city and
the other way around
and we need to focus also in consumption
so we try to act in these three scopes
or access throughout different
initiatives for mainly initiating and
expanding projects I see as you see on
the top of the picture I don't know if
you see it correctly
of course raising awareness depending on
the sector the awareness is not that
evident trying to promote ourselves as a
region as a circle region and of course
making connections with others we have
our knowledge but we don't know
everything and trying to include in all
these access a number of enablers we
need the public administration we need
public procurement we need education we
need all the type of instruments that
can foster a circular economy and that
are very needed I'm going to come back
to that in a minute but just to let you
know we are currently developing
projects in two cities two of the main
cities in the Basque Country one is
Vitoria has days the other one is in
Bilbao the one in Bilbao we are
developing it together with circle
economy we are implementing their CT
scan and we have generated a local
consortium to make it a reality
hopefully we will have the results by
the end of this year so I'm not really
allowed to talk about these
a lot more but to let you know that we
are working in in in in the cities and
again trying not to focus projects only
in terms of behavior or in terms of what
is more evident in the cities which is
mainly related to ICT applications
[Music]
linked to tourism or restaurants or
sectors like that but trying to
incorporate the industry the heavy
industry in the projects in the city and
related to the awareness which we think
is very important to you what we have
done is we have created a platform where
we are trying to get involved in it all
of the companies organizations from
different sources that are currently
developing projects in circle Academy it
can be basically anything related to
circle economy it doesn't have to be
like the most sophisticated project I
mean it can be a servitization project
it can be a remanufacturing project but
it can be an education project because
what we want is not only to position the
territory but basically that those that
are not understanding the circle economy
as a opportunity at the moment can see
other options can see what others are
doing and can get ideas out of it so we
can be more and more and more following
these this path just a few conclusions
and what I think are the main
opportunities and challenges
opportunities for the cities of course
reducing resource dependence that is
very evident improving productivity
reducing environmental impacts but also
developing new technologies and business
models we shouldn't forget about
business models even though that's like
one of the most difficult parts Internet
of Things is base
take for that but we need to explore we
need to try we need to understand that
things are very keen to you not being
positive like the first time not even
the second one maybe not even on the
third time that we try but we need to
try because you who don't try new models
new ways of doing it's gonna be we're
gonna be like stick in the same point
all the time and this is mine it's not
from the organization even though we
promote collaboration but it's still
that's the biggest challenge
collaboration is something that we
always say happens and need to happen
but it's from my perspective still the
biggest challenge so hopefully we will
I mean shake our minds a little bit and
think about this a little bit more so
that was all from my side thank you very
much just one thing that I didn't
remember to mention before you can use
the ask about application there well I
think you have to download it I don't
know very well how it works but you can
use an app to send your your questions
so after all the presentations we can
resume your questions and transfer it to
the speakers you can also be able to to
use the microphone so please Matthew
thank you very much I'm really happy to
be here I think it's fair to say that
we're all here because we recognize that
cities in some way are really at the
epicenter of change and to work on
solutions of the future of the future
really does mean to work in cities in
the city in the urban environment I'd
like to talk just a few to you about a
few points from my work my perspective
about how cities can and in fact are in
some cases already sort of leading that
transition toward a circular economy are
maybe actually just to back up a little
bit our organization called circle
economy is really our mission is
actually to sort of facilitate the the
sort of on-the-ground implementation of
the circular economy and Anna pointed
out we do city scans with a lot of
European cities right now but we also
work with a lot of different sectors and
the interesting thing about cities is
really this is the place where ever
everybody sort of comes together and we
get to really try to get that
collaboration going which is indeed
difficult at times one of the the
biggest ways I think that cities can
really lead in the transition I I mean
change is messy to put it sort of
bluntly and when you're trying to sort
of create large-scale system change
there needs to be experimentation and a
lot of learning and what we do primarily
through our circle city scan is really
guide policymakers municipal officials
and also sectors and business officials
through a process where we talk about
circular economy and set a unique
circular economy vision for cities
but also really try to see tangibly how
that would look sort of on a
down-to-earth level matching different
sectors as you can see here in this
image what would that really look like
from a sort of ideal circular economy
perspective and of course identifying
first steps which would be pilot
projects that are of course
strategically aligned with the larger
vision but also just as importantly
visible and tangible into the lives of
citizens I think this is this is really
key to bring about change and to show
that there is although there is a
positive message to be to be sought yeah
I mean obviously connected to that is
collaboration we actually just started a
new program within circle economy on the
built environment from an impact point
of view that's huge because I think the
recent numbers say that about 50 percent
of global emissions come from how we
handle materials and when you look at
sort of the materials that are sort of
sitting in the city a lot of them are
materials allocated to the built
environment so there's a massive
opportunity here for cities to play a
role but it also takes a lot of
collaboration the construction and
development sector is is is huge and and
and large but this is what we really aim
to do with a lot of our our services is
really bring people together and see how
we can begin to make small movements but
really start to begin to move the ball
forward
the next thing and I think this is also
what I've been lucky enough to see over
the past couple of years is obviously
circular economy it's not necessarily a
new concept but a repackage concept that
has a lot of familiar philosophies and
principles embedded within it but now I
think we're at the point and especially
within cities where we're going from a
few pilot projects and a few successful
businesses now to quite an extensive
database and in fact circle economy has
a knowledge hub with well over 500
successful case studies on circular
economy across all different sectors and
I think that's a sign of success in
itself really just to say that there are
so many examples around the world and
what I'm focusing on these days with
cities is really helping helping cities
sort of take a next step by really
measuring how they're currently
performing what sort of targets and
goals they may have within the circular
economy and how they can really measure
progress towards that those those larger
multifaceted goals I think if we look
around today obviously there's a lot of
uncertainty and I think connectors did
that quite a lot of anxiety we see
circular economy as not only a solution
for sustainable development but a much
more resilient model for our economy but
that being said one of the the main
questions that we get within cities is
really what can a circular economy bring
in terms of employment so we're doing
quite a lot of research now to develop
metrics by which cities can begin to use
to measure their progress but also the
current state and the first metric that
we worked on together with
the Erasmus happiness Economic Research
Center in the Netherlands was an
indicator sort of methodology to
actually measure the number of circular
jobs and you may be asking what is the
circular job and of course that's really
difficult to define I mean there's quite
a large body of literature defining
green jobs even though that's quite high
level and a bit vague we're talking
about something quite specific with the
circular economy so we turn to the seven
key elements that we use which basically
describe the that the main tenants the
main principles of a circular economy
and we did some research by to look at
how we could define jobs based around
these principles what we came up with is
a definition on one hand a circular job
is any full-time or part-time occupation
that directly involves one of those
seven elements where a directly circular
job would be directly involving one of
those elements as sort of a key task
within that job function where an
indirectly circular job would be
something that supports that maybe just
to make that a bit more tangible in
light blue we have the directly circular
jobs which would be something like solar
panel and installer or an appliance
technicians that someone who sort of has
a more hands-on and direct relationship
with with resources whereas in the the
three dark blue circles you have more
supporting functions but I would say
potentially even more important things
like designers and architects data
analysts directors of trade associations
and and so on who can actually
bring together different organizations
and facilitate collaboration at a higher
level this is this first round which is
what we did in the past year is is
really just a first step in a long
trajectory of research and what we were
able to do is establish a baseline
number of circular jobs in the
Netherlands what we estimated is there
is a little over 800,000 jobs in the
Netherlands the the light-blue part of
the the pie diagram here shows the the
direct the direct circular jobs where
the darker blue shows the the indirect I
think what's interesting here is that
despite the Netherlands actually being
kind of known for as being a knowledge
economy and a quite advanced service
economy in many cases the number of
directly circular jobs
far outweighs the the indirectly one
thing also just to point out here as a
consequence of our research was also to
look at the requirements basically a
proxy for saying sort of skill level
across these jobs a lot of the core
circular economy jobs are actually quite
low skill compared to the the average
across the economy whereas the
indirectly or supporting the
facilitating jobs are significantly
higher skill so I think again taking
taking into perspective that this is
really our first step in many I think
these are very interesting conclusions
and I of course I'd be happy to talk
about them but I think there's already
some some value for cities here one is
that cities clearly have a baseline and
of course that's going to look quite
different for every city in every region
also from that you can clearly get a
sense of the sort of relative strengths
and weaknesses within that city or
region
what's important for people like me who
work with cities is already I have
better insight on who to bring together
around the table and really how to how
to build strong ventures and pilot
projects but what we hope to do in a
longer term vision is and also this goes
back to the the sort of the knowledge
base the the number of case studies that
are out there showing successful
circular economy initiatives hopefully
what we can do is give some sort of
predictive modeling as to what sort of
employment this could bring to cities in
the future based on other initiatives so
I think there's a lot of exciting
lessons to be learned here even though
as I said this is a really a first step
but also just to wrap wrap it up I think
we're not so far away and this is
something that I'm working very hard on
to really automate a lot of services so
that so that any city around the world
can can sort of log in understand some
basic statistics around their current
level of circularity where the sort of
key pain points are where the lot of the
impacts are connect to other cities
around the world that have excellent
best practice pilot projects and
businesses and also connect internally
to the right stakeholders within that
city or region to really land these
projects and get them going so I think
in short circular economy in cities is
looking very bright and yeah I'm very
much looking forward to continuing not
only to push on collaboration but really
to get some some metrics there so that
cities can begin to measure and take
control of the transition toward a
circular economy Thanks
[Applause]
well Matthew I think I have a circular
job so what hope so I hope I do first I
wanted to share with you a few elements
of the definition that I have for what
we could call circular economy is not
just about slowing rows all these
finishing benefits is not at all about
that
it is about sustainable growth through
innovation and collaboration I think
that was clearly highlighted by my
colleague bill before and I'm happy to
see that we share the same and common
understanding around this it is very
much about continuing to create value
while preserving natural resources you
have it here and in this in this quick
graph I'm not digging into the detail
but there are many levers to push you
growth and at the same time preserve
natural resources it goes very much from
innovation to responsible production
smart consumption then considering waste
not as a waste but as a resource and
work very hard in designing together how
to limit the externalities and then
these are the key factors the key
conditions and the key way you bundle
them together to achieve economic growth
while preserving natural resources so
we're talking today about cities about
central cities why are we shaping
resourceful cities well what's the whole
point yes cities represent only 2% of
the world's surface but as we all know
here 50% of the world population 75
percent of the energy consumption and 80
percent of co2 emissions so clearly if
you want to do something about solving
the resource scarcity and the trend that
has been highlighted all over the press
even in the yesterday if you had a
chance to go through this this alarm
that was sent by 15,000 researchers
worldwide on the fact that we are going
down the road to nowhere you do have to
act in an on cities on the way they are
being organized and being the way they
consume and the way you can improve this
co2 emissions figure that you have here
this energy consumption whereas we all
know that the trend of the 50%
population is not going to decrease so
let me give you one concrete example of
what I would consider as being a
successful project that to my point of
your tackle some of these challenges let
it take me to the song so for those of
you who don't know the song disjoint the
capital city of the historical region of
Burgundy in the eastern France very much
one on one word for the mustard
obviously for the excellent wines of of
what going and soon the city is going to
be a hopes of famous as it is developing
a project but becoming a smarter or more
secular city concretely the city of
Dijon has launched a bid which was
awarded to Suez and its partner sit
alone and we energy service to become
the first centralized and connected city
with a unique management for a certain
level of
different silos and vertical within the
city the innovation here relies on
unbundling bundling sorry what was
unbundled before and organizing
different verticals that did not
communicate the city of Dijon has
decided to start with five verticals
which are around which you can see on
the graph here
CCTV's traffic regulation and traffic
line so how can I improve my my mobility
in the city public lightning
safety and fire security and relocation
of vehicles of city flee that's one
first dimension of the project second
dimension is start working on the
interface with other public services
such as West collection such as water
distribution such as public transport
and mobility so again for the very first
time at the scale of a city of 300,000
inhabitants a city is defining itself in
terms of global management and global
organization not but not by silo but
from a holistic perspective with a
transversal solution what are the
expected outcomes from the city very
tangible and short-term results actually
that's why should be considered as a
very concrete business case the first
quick win expected by the city is that
by developing this solution you will
have an upgrade and a better management
of the municipal equipments we as the
industrial that has been selected by the
city we have a performance objective to
be achieve really soon about generating
sixty-five percent in terms of money
saving for the city in terms of energy
being related to street lighting so that
that's very tangible that's very
concrete that tackles one of the main
challenges of all the cities worldwide
which is how can I save money without
deteriorating the level of service okay
that's the first aspect the second
aspect is about the better better
coordination of services we all had
experience once in our life the city in
which the street in which we work or in
which we live in which the public
services walking on water are going to
cut the street for one week because they
have to fix something three months after
the guys from I don't know cable or
fiber optic are going to cut the same
street okay
because they have to intervene and
change something that has to be changed
and four months left they're the guys
from an example energy or gas okay
that's saying that we have all
experienced in our in our day to day
life so far there was no other way to do
it because all these services we
organizing say loaded there was no
coordination no trans versality now
tomorrow in the city of Dijon you will
have a tool of solution to coordinate
all those guys and say guys you are all
of you going to make your intervention
the very same week so I don't have to
cut the street three times one week in
the year but only once in the year okay
so gives you a clear idea of again
you're saving money for the people for
the taxpayer for the citizen and you are
avoiding nuisance about mobility in the
neighborhood because it's - it is not
cut three weeks in the whole year is cut
only once
ok that's one element and the last
element is obviously about public safety
improvement with a unique tool that
allows you to control and coordinate the
different services I'm thinking of the
firemen I'm thinking of the of the
police station and thinking of on
everything has to do with ambulance and
the control you haven't straight
lightning if you have to increase the
the the light in the street because
there is in this or this area a certain
level of crisis today you have the
control command center that allows you
to coordinate and have a better action
on an reaction on what's happening
that's one dimension the other dimension
that the city asked us to thanks to all
the data that is going to come from all
the different public services to build a
data lake whose objective is to foster
the digital economy of the city you are
here in the city which is located
halfway between Paris 15 million
inhabitants and Rio which is 3 million
inhabitants both city are extremely
dynamic attracting investment attracting
digital startup so how
can you exist in this map when you are
300,000 inhabitants city just like area
in the middle okay by innovation
what kind of innovation how can you
support innovation how can you boot
boost your digital ecosystem how can you
help your young entrepreneurs okay
how can you motivate young guys being
hydrated from Paris or you or everywhere
in Europe to come here to build up your
EO just that by providing them an
ecosystem that they have nowhere else
and it's not about putting money okay
it's about putting data that will allow
them to think and elaborate and and
develop new ideas new services that no
one has ever imagined yet just because
they didn't have the data okay that's
the second angle and and and a very
important objective for the mayor the
city so to conclude on this concrete
business case I think it gives a pretty
accurate definition of what can be a
circular city okay it's not the only
kind of answer you can bring to the
secularity issue that was raised before
and then raised in my introduction but
again it is concrete it is happening now
the contra has been a worried in
September okay after two years of
competition between different very large
corporations and I think it's very
interesting that do to keep it as an
example circular economy in City is much
more than recycling and reusing
innovation can be fostered and
encouraged by political leadership by
taking decision okay that are disruptive
decision on the way you organize the
city and this is what the the
the mayor of Dijon has done he has
introduced a huge disruption on the way
he is organizing the city collaboration
between local and state government will
be key because here you need a global
framework that allows you to enter into
this kind of contract funding long term
investment public procurement incent
incentive transitional arrangement are
absolutely crucial that's part of the
engineering here that's part of the
disruption in the business model and my
conclusion is that I think that was
highlighted also before by my colleagues
smart cities circular cities it is not
about technology it's about business
model is about mindset is about how you
organize things and how you how you put
different actors around the same table
okay engage them in competition put
implement contracts implement new
business model and this is how you make
six happen thank you very much
thank you all three you gave us really
deep insights of what a circular city
looked like so now we have a time for
four questions from the audience
I don't know if we have microphones
around and also I would like to have the
D iPad to know whether we have a
questions from the app anybody I'm sure
we are plenty of questions after these
great presentations so oh great all
right thank you very much great
presentations wiles hearing here
Brazilian living in Dubai so you can
imagine the different scenarios I live
in my life right and in Dubai we have
huge leadership to get things done right
so there is a massive vision and purpose
to get you know a happiness agenda you
know so that cohesion that all of you
have been emphasizing here is kind of
directed from the highest of the
leadership of the country but you know
that the country is formulated in a way
that makes it easy we have a ruler in
the country that top-down
create that vision my original country
that's not the case right so we have
different political agendas and I mean
everybody wants to take a piece of
everything I would like to hear more
from you guys on leadership to get
really the circular economy to to work
so what is it required for leaders to
create an impact around circular economy
I think you raised one of the key points
as well as far as as my experience is
concerned you need a vision which is
clearly expressed and this is what you
should explain expect from political
leadership I have no opinion on whether
one system or another is is more adapted
that should not be the point I mean
things are what they are in Brazil
because because of the history of Brazil
and because of Brazilian identity and
things the same applies for Dubai and
the result is not the same and that's
fine
in both cases okay to buy is one city
you have cities in Brazil with very
strong political leadership okay in the
South many but I don't want to to
pinpoint one of the other ones and and I
remember having a discussion with the
mayor of porto alegre which is a guy
that has an amazing political trajectory
he did astonishing stuff for the city
this gentleman he has a vision he has
political leadership and he implemented
what had to be done
and that's the key starting point in the
business case I mentioned it all starts
by phosphite semaine a political leader
that has a vision for what he needs and
what he wants
but for his city and he has it's done
from my perspective it has to do viously
with having a vision but it has to do
also with having the circular economy as
a key element incorporated in all of the
different departments at political in
the political structures and I'm going
to explain myself if we focus and or if
the political leadership of the circle
economy is only linked to the business
promotion department that's an
incomplete vision if it's only promoted
by the environmental department in the
government that's an incomplete vision
and I can continue on that I mean it has
to be again something incorporated in
the agenda of all of the departments
otherwise again it's my vision of this
but otherwise it's very complicated to
have a real deployment of the circular
economy in the cities in the regions in
the countries I I see it complicated
yeah I don't know how much I can really
add to that but more just to underline I
I think obviously leadership is critical
but leadership can also sort of take
many forms on one hand I I think what we
see I mean even just you know if you
kind of look around on social media or
the internet actually a lot of
leadership is really coming from cities
these days and I think there's even an
opportunity for them to perhaps you know
on issues of perhaps climate change even
surpass national ambitions so I think
for sure leadership is critical and it's
happening in cities but as Ayanna points
to what ends I think it's actually sort
of a rallying call to get everybody
together
work in a new way and if you are still
sort of operating sort of in silos which
is the sort of common term then how good
is the leadership really it's it's a
complicated question but I think I would
agree with the rest of the panel can you
explain more about the city scan I don't
know if this is open can you explain
more about the cities can you you were
developing also tools to scale it up to
make it easier for a new cities to join
this movement yeah I'd be happy to talk
about it it's it it's basically a kind
of a process whereby we we get together
key decision-makers within the
municipality and the city and within
different business communities to really
sort of set a vision together so what is
circular economy let's get all on the
same page but then also let's really
understand where your city is at what
are your challenges and what are you
what does that city particularly sort of
built built to excel at and we really
try to actually just kind of build
around those characteristics but really
coming from I guess the sort of core
analysis that we bring is really the the
material flow analysis approach so
obviously circular economy is about sort
of cycling resources in its simplest
sense
so what we do is is really from a
material flow point of view really
looking at how different resources move
through a city or a region we really try
to just sort of connect the dots and of
course it's I could easily talk for an
hour about how we do that but but it's
really looking at sort of not only how
do you establish opportunities for
symbiosis or sort of sort of trading or
cascading of value valued flows between
industries but also as I think all of us
have touched on is kind of rethinking
business models in a new way so that you
can essentially decouple the value that
you would get as a consumer from the
resource implications of that surface
and that's that's really sort of the
essence of what we do and then actually
we rely quite heavily a lot on local
organizations like you know Bosque and
others to actually sort of really drive
that that local agenda and make sure
that it happens on the ground and of
course that's where all the difficult
work comes in but it's it's really
taking a lot of that enthusiasm and
energy that and insights that we get
from the sort of beginning phases of the
analysis and really sort of landing
those into concrete projects that don't
need to be the sort of ultimate project
but need to need to be strategic enough
to connect to a larger vision but also
in my opinion sort of visible and kind
of tangible enough so that it people can
really see that this is this is an
option and then this this really brings
value to them and there is something to
it so I think it's I would summarize the
sort of city scanners it's a journey
that we take with cities basically just
a sort of kick start the whole process
toward moving
there are many questions about me John
so I will read the first one which is
the most potent how much of the 65
percent energy savings in Dijon comes
from the systems approach and how much
from the low-energy light from
low-energy light okay
excellent question 5050
so if I rephrase the question
65% of the energy bill reduction for the
city half of it is coming from upgrading
the hardware so the street lightning
post and the other half comes from a
better use adapted to what happened
actually really in the streets
okay so adapting your consumption or
what it is actually needed there's
another question related to the the
population and how this affects the
prices the circular economy change
prices or it's a barrier for poor
populations in any way did you find any
challenge about this and how to include
poor population in the system well I can
answer from what I have experienced it
should not actually I don't see why and
how what we call a circular City should
become more expensive well that's really
not what I defend and what we try to
implement I'd stress on our projects
which should be the other way around
when I have discussion with mayor's they
all tell me the same thing more or less
they say I have to do more with less
less is less money more can be more
service more transparency more
attractiveness more whatever you want
but less is always the same less money
and innovation is about your capacity to
answer to this question if you can only
answer to the first part of the question
which is how can I do more my personal
belief you are not really being very
innovative
okay and this regarding your research on
job creation what kind of skills did you
detect are mainly related to the
circular economy our high skills or high
education skills or maybe yeah I think
there's actually quite a quite a split
as I showed I think in the last slide of
my presentation is that I mean by
definition a lot of the sort of core
activities of a circular economy do come
down to sort of physical material hand
handling and processing such that it can
be cycled and what that lends itself to
now is what we would call sort of lower
lower skilled labor where let's say
you're repairing electronic devices or
or other other materials or goods but
then also in installing renewable energy
systems things like that I think where
you clearly have high skilled labor is
in the sort of facilitation activity so
when you think about a designer or a
business manager really trying to
fundamentally redesign not only the
product but the system in which that
product exists exists in so just I mean
talking about lighting as a service for
example you're no longer sort of selling
boxes of light bulbs at a store you're
really selling quite an integrated
system that requires well quite a lot of
smart technology obviously but logistics
channels and
reuse and disassembly facilities that
that are somehow connected to
manufacturing I mean there's a lot of
that's a high skilled work that would
really go into the sort of systems
design of what we would want to see in a
circular economy whereby the the sort of
day-to-day management of the circular
economy does tend to be lower skilled
maybe just as it as a caveat to that I
mean this is again something that we've
we've just now taken our first step in
and we and we would actually like to
kind of challenge a lot of these big
numbers that have been thrown around I'm
sure maybe you've seen but you know they
say in Europe they're they're three
million jobs some potential jobs in the
circular economy I mean these sort of
macro economic forecasts are interesting
to capture a headline but but I'm also
very curious myself to see how that
actually looks like on the ground and
what that actually translates into and I
think that's I mean I think also taking
an honest approach about that is useful
for for cities to drive a sensible
policy towards a more sustainable and
hopefully circular City okay is there
any other question from the audience we
have here the microphone it would be the
last one I think please
what I find strange is to talk about
circular economy and talk about doing
less doing more with less and then when
you talk about skills to talk about
specialists essentially you need to do
many more things with much less
resources that is why education has to
become really more allistic less
specialty more skills to do things in
the ancient times I come from Greece and
people could be farmers and warriors and
artists at the same time we have seen
this in the Renaissance with Leonardo
and I think if we give the message for
the material flows and everything it's
okay to him you know more with less but
for the people it is even more important
and this is called efficiency
essentially circular economy is a
contradiction to thermodynamics because
you need to do things over and over
there is no permanent motion but
efficiency is what allows you to extract
more of any given source and as you know
in efficiency there is something from
another famous person Carnot there is a
cycle that gives you limited to
efficiency are we there
I don't know but obviously there is
still you know work to be done and this
is not about technology is not about
business model is really about people
who know to do more things with their
hands in the range yes please the last
one this this will be the last one
hello i'm from the university of girona
in tourism and i think we're very very
quick to talk about how these benefits
can have a an impact on the residents in
a city however obviously tourism is
growing and growing and growing
exponentially with people taking even
more shorter trips to even less known
destinations and i want to know how you
think that the circular economy could
benefit the transit population in the
city and how for example the sharing
economy you mentioned bruno in was part
of your
that's that's a good point and if if I
always come back to my example deserves
a quite touristic City so the question
was right top priority for the city was
upon which the permanent cities and who
permanent residence which makes sense
from this perspective however
attractiveness obviously thought about
investment about digital etc also as
being a very touristic City is a key
element here we have to work on it
because the key question here very easy
there are lots of apps and devices which
are going to be developed to ease the
life or the people who are in the city
okay so I would say the citizens but you
have to get to know that it exists when
you are spending just two days in the
city maybe you don't have time or you
just don't care ok so one of the things
we are going to do to work on and that's
already in the to do list which the city
is what kind of new apps thanks to the
data Lake can we develop for the
tourists okay and that's going to be
most probably one of the hackathons
content we are going to launch and maybe
we don't design it and the city does not
design it but I hope that some startup
is going to do to develop and figure out
something ok so we have the question we
don't have the answer yet but ask me one
year from now I'm sure I can give you a
different answer ok thank you very much
to all of you I think it was a very rich
session and we have to live now because
we are a little bit late just three
words to resume to summarize what we
were talking about I think for a
circular city to be possible we need
innovation
collaboration and holistic approach do
you think it's a good summary okay great
so thank you very much and please join
us in the next session
[Applause]
