Title: Advancing the Health and Wellbeing of People in Cities
 
Subject: Health

* Society

Abstract: 

Cities play an essential role in shaping human health. Indeed, there is evidence to support positive connections between the physical environment and people’s wellbeing. Still, the risks of adverse impacts such as air pollution, congested traffic and equity issues in terms of access to healthcare are poorly developed. What are the basic services to be provided in a digital society? What kind of tools are needed to improve urban health?

Speakers: 

Davide Malmusi
Christine Kendrick
Hoffman Lantum
Krishnamurthy Gowda
Luis Suárez Zarcos

Conference: 
so good afternoon I think of as
video to start yes okay I was so good
afternoon everyone and thank you for
being here in this session I think that
all in this Congress is very important
but this session is especially important
because why we make our city smart if
it's not to improve the health and
well-being of the population so we think
that I think that this session is
especially relevant and you have the we
are lucky to have speakers from four
different continents representing also
the global North and a global South they
will touch different topics all of them
are of big impact on health and
well-being the topic of work environment
topic of air quality healthcare social
integration so I hope it will be an
interesting session in Versailles I work
in Barcelona in Barcelona in the Verona
City Hall and with which several we work
with several organization in plenty of
projects and realities developing smart
smart initiatives for royal being for
instance telemedicine health promotion
and protection using mobile apps in air
quality monitoring and we also
collaborate with fear at the Barcelona
in the in an yearly event which is
called LTE healthier health with an
exhibition about where patient named
where patients and health system meets
that is showing up in Barcelona for this
year it has been the first time and next
year for the second time it's about
having patients and stakeholders
experiencing the future of healthcare so
we are also happy to collaborate in this
project and now I just start to give the
floor of to to the participants in the
in this session so first of all
Christine Kendrick from the city of
Portland Christine the first to you
good afternoon everyone my name is
christine kendrick from city of portland
oregon in the u.s. i work for the city
and the Bureau of planning and
sustainability this afternoon I'm going
to tell you about a project we're
working on where we are evaluating
low-cost air quality sensors so why are
quality sensors the map on this slide is
showing you a picture of the city
boundaries of Portland and that green
dot is the one and only air quality
monitoring station that's run by our
state agency in the whole of the city
boundaries so we know that our urban
roadsides are under sampled we also know
that health risk and transportation
related potion is higher near our roads
so our residents have been asking for
this data they want to understand what's
happening how can we what are we gonna
do about these uneven exposures to air
pollution but in order to incorporate
public health more into our
decision-making maybe it's land-use
planning or other types of code for
buildings we need more data so we've
been looking at the use of low cost air
quality sensors as a way to help
increase that spatial resolution that
spatial density of measurements this is
very expensive to build out a full
regulatory monitoring station and this
is a picture from one of our very first
simple pilots where we did see
interferences from temperature and
relative humidity cross sensitivities
with other pollutants which was to be
expected with the technology that these
lower cost devices are using our initial
pilot also highlighted issues with data
recovery so how well we were doing and
storing the data sending out over
cellular modem and we would lose service
or not have service in certain areas and
then also that sampling Inlet design
still matters even with these lower-cost
devices especially for particles so we
can't just put the hole on the side of
the box so we have over the past year
had a great testing opportunity that has
been funded by a National Institute of
Standards and Technology replicable
smart cities technology grant
this grant allowed us to first do a
little bit more of a thorough sensor
rufio so we looked at about 45 different
sensors or devices that were combining
sensors and what we were looking for in
this initial review is we wanted devices
that at least had some type of
evaluation data set prior to coming to
our project in our tests we also needed
devices that were ready to be deployed
outside so they had weatherized housing
we didn't want to be in the business as
the city of building our own boxes or
having to put out cabinets so we needed
these devices to be ready to go and to
be installed on the poll so the three
sensors that came to the top of our list
at our review and are the focus of this
project is the Sun severe ramp which is
a company from Pittsburgh Pennsylvania
APIs sensor cell is the local organ
based company and then also the
University of Chicago Argonne National
Laboratory array of things node this
node is different in that it didn't have
a lot of the evaluation data for the air
quality but it had so much research and
investment into the CPU the computer
processing unit behind the device and
that was also an important piece so our
project is designed that we argot we are
doing lab testing then field deployments
and then roadside deployment so in the
lab we're partnering with Portland State
University pictured here on the on their
on your left is a picture of the chamber
that they recently got so this is really
great we can stick a whole sensor device
inside of that chamber we can expose it
to known concentrations of gasses and
particles that we're comparing that
signal you can build really good
calibration models and you can also
change the temperature and relative
humidity and do in mixtures of
pollutants so we're really trying to
understand what those issues are are
there things that need to be changed in
the calibration model or the device to
help address those issues for the
roadside deployment we are deploying
them out into a part of Portland called
East Portland and this intersection
specifically has what we call our clear
station which stands for curves that I
lab for emissions and air quality
research so this station has reference
instruments housed in a traffic signal
cabinet it's not as
that state regulatory monitoring station
because it's not you know temperature
controlled and not calibrated as often
but it gives us a nice check again
against a reference instrument and these
devices out on the roadway so the
primary bulk of the work that's been
done so far has actually been the
testing at the Oregon Department of
Environmental Quality field station so
this is a background field site that
Green Dot from the map on the second
slide this is that station so this is
the top deck with all their instruments
and we are allowed to go out and deploy
our sensors and so what we do the
sensors from the companies so what we do
and we're deploying three at a time we
want to understand not only how the
sensors compared to the reference
instruments but also how well they
compare to each other
so before we start to put them out all
over the city we need to know that
they're telling the same story in order
to understand differences across
neighborhoods so I'm going to show you a
little bit of preliminary data that we
have here and then go into talk about
lessons learned and where our next steps
where we're heading with this project
these three graphs show the APUs sensor
cell and no sensors compared to the DEQ
reference instrument the reference
instrument is on the horizontal axis the
sensors are on the y-axis so we can see
from this month of data that we
collected all three sensors are tracking
pretty well with the reference
instrument this is good the next step is
also to then analyze the sensor aversive
sensor looks pretty good we're at least
having the same range of concentrations
for each sensor for each enno sensor and
then this is preliminary data from the
deployment at the DEQ station with the
ramp son severe a device and on this
graph you have ozone on the vertical
axis and time and date on the x-axis so
what you're seeing here is really just
these initial look at our first two week
and a half of data and at the very
beginning the first day and a half the
blue line is the sensor the orange line
is the reference instrument and you can
see that they don't track very well at
all and this shows you that there is
a really important warmup period for
these sensors so really the first 24 to
48 hours a day that really isn't going
to be useful when you're using small
electrochemical sensors that are inside
these devices so after that set-up time
we had a unfortunate local forest fire
event obviously was not planned or
expected and we had very high levels of
ozone and nitrogen oxides come into the
Portland area so the sensor did catch
that event and you can see pretty good
agreement in this initial check but what
the fortunately this meant for the time
line of our project is that we really
had to have the sensors out there for
longer than expected because we are
trying to build a calibration model so
this is great we really have this
extreme high end of the data but we
weren't really getting the typical lower
constant ambient concentrations that we
also see throughout the year so those
mean meant more time added on to this
data collection and this stage so whit
and I and I as you noticed I didn't have
any data from the Argonne National
Laboratory and University of Chicago
array of things nodes we haven't gotten
them yet so this is kind of our first
lesson learned that manufacturing delays
are going to happen with these types of
devices it's not your typical
infrastructure piece that you're buying
for the city so different components are
made by different companies or
organizations and so delays are going to
happen I'm happy to say that I I'm close
to having a shipping tracking number for
those and we'll be getting them in about
a month so next steps will be doing the
lab testing with those devices I think
also thinking about that these are
non-traditional infrastructure pieces
for cities is that they also don't
really know what kind of maintenance
they're gonna need so once we put them
and onto the traffic signal poles and
light poles this isn't your typical
piece of equipment that maybe should
have lasted to her 22 maybe even 50
years there's me a lot more maintenance
and different types of asset management
that we've had to work with our
procurement office and our Portland
Bureau of Transportation on to figure
out also with that that we had to
unexpectedly take about a six-month
piece of this past year to work on
building a new citywide comprehensive
policy for attachments to our polls to
our vertical imager infrastructure so
this was unexpected very quickly that's
it's ramped up there's a lot of demand
for our the city's infrastructure in the
public right-of-way
so not only sensors that the city wants
to install sensors that private
companies want to install small cell
sites we have to think about autonomous
vehicles coming so there's a lot of
demands for those polls and how do we
manage that resource best that is in the
public right-of-way it's a public
resource so that was also an unexpected
piece into this sensor validation study
so next steps what we're focusing on
we're pulling the permits right now for
the road side deployments of the APIs
sensor cell and the sense of year ramp
those will be going up over the next
month as long as we have no snow and ice
and our crews are able to put their time
into installing these devices and once
we have that data coming in from the
road side what we have planned for
January in February it's actually some
small community focused work groups and
specifically meeting with certain panels
of equity workgroups from some of our
transportation nonprofits and what we
want to focus on there is sharing the
data that we're clutching from the road
side what are the reactions to this is
the graph that we're using helpful or is
this really confusing and I can't
understand it so what are those data
communication methods that we need and
asked also what what other data do you
need what's missing so really trying to
focus on that and I think an important
piece for this type of work is that how
do we communicate what a short-term air
quality measurement means in terms of my
health and my risk and compare that to
an annual standard or a lifetime
standard and that's going to be really
important to actually get to the point
where this increased data and monitoring
data is actually useful for influencing
Public Health making communities feel
like they know more about their air and
can take action on it or not so that's
all I have for today looking forward to
questions and discussion with a diverse
panel and different topics today
and that's my email contact information
feel free to email with any questions
and thank you smart cities Expo World
Congress city of Portland for being here
today thanks thank you
okay so while hoffman lanthum from
Makeup unique technologies Nairobi is
preparing the slides just to remind you
that for that we will collect questions
and make question at the end there is
the you to remind you that is this a
scam boat utility I think it's in the
app of the the of the Congress you can
make questions using the the a scam the
a scam boat or you also can vote on
questions that have been posed by other
persons here in the in the room and at
the end we will see the questions that
are being made the most popular one will
be posed to the audience and also in the
case of off man as of managed to leave
to to the airport before the end of the
session maybe when he finishes if you
have some quick burning questions for
him you can just go to the microphones
that are in this in this part of the
room and and we make the questions
before passing to the next speaker of
man well thanks thanks David and really
appreciate it hi everyone
delighted to be here when I got the
invitation to speak at the smart cities
conference being a doctor and very
health centric I was like okay what am I
going to talk about but then I realized
the story that my public health
professor taught me said health care is
about the home what happens in the
neighborhood determines yourself your
sense of self-esteem what happens in
your living room determines your
awareness what happens in your kitchen
depends determines your nutrition
studies and what happens in the bedroom
determines the number of children you
would have to feed so you know it sounds
like okay so I'm at home here and I'd so
really excited to be here now last year
we warned the
south let's see the South global South
award for technology in healthcare and
so it's quite an honor could not be here
so delighted to be to be back here and
and we're working with a couple of
fantastic companies to make sure that
we're getting technology to where it's
needed the most and I chose to talk
about the promise of a health
hope hype hope you know or hustle now if
a health has to meet his mandate of
saving health then it must uphold the
universal rights to quality care and
medicines now a lot of progress has
happened over the years and this is the
2017 Gartner hype cycle picture I'm not
sure if you're familiar with the Gardner
cycle hype cycle but it really looks at
the hype of technology in different
sectors and this is a summary child of
the hype cycle in health care now you
can see that pretty much the you know
cloud mobile technology you know is the
mainstay in healthcare and there's been
a lot of progress Internet of Things is
becoming big in healthcare and that is
the hype right now there is a huge drive
to incorporate artificial intelligence
to help address some of the pressing
health needs now my analysis would draw
on the experience of our company
developing technologies to help us
address some of the pressing issues and
hopefully paint a picture of hype hope
or hustle now the jury's out it made my
job easy The Wall Street Journal this
past week published a report saying the
type of virtual medicine maybe is not
really happening and so there is a lot
of room you know for improvement I tend
to agree with the author of this article
that there is a lot of work that needs
to be done primarily because as we have
developed
systems and incorporated technology in
healthcare we have drilled down the lane
of specialties so you have a lot of
technology for heart surgery
neurosurgery but if we really look at it
from the perspective of society and
healthcare there are lots of gaps which
I'll try to point out now I'm going to
tell you a little story that really
influenced how we think about technology
as a company this is a picture of me as
a doctor I'm seeing this patient in
Kenya in one of the rural hospitals long
story short get that arrow clock two
years we had deployed an electronic
medical record system in this county and
I'm doing support supervision I get
there the nurse is seeing a baby the
nurse puts in a data system malaria but
the child was there with the mother the
grandmother and the father of the child
as a practitioner I knew there was
something wrong I examined the baby the
baby had pneumonia and meningitis so
artificial intelligence in the resource
limited setting is important and it is
very expensive to do however that story
doesn't end there that was 8 o clock in
the morning 8:15 did mother leaves with
the baby and goes 15 kilometers down the
road and she looks for the medicine that
I prescribed couldn't find it at 11 o
clock she goes to another city close by
she couldn't find it she finds the
medicine around 1 o'clock in the
afternoon she could not afford it she
takes a car back to the village gets $40
and flies and drives right back to the
hospital and the child gets the medicine
for pneumonia and meningitis at 8 o
clock p.m. and that's a six-month-old
baby now if you're a city you can think
about it from the perspective of the
carbon footprint the mobility the
accidents the risks the cost of
healthcare all of that is valid for my
health information perspective we are
failing mothers so we decided as a
company to adopt a strategy whereby we
would have technologies that are trying
to address different components of the
healthcare system now we have one
technology which is branded zt4 which we
recognized and we're working with why
away technologies to use it as an
information and here are P system for
hospitals and health systems
the idea being
really transmitting information for
decision-making around healthcare
management telemedicine if you will
we've developed another system which
I'll talk about which is about helping
the health care workers identify risks
before they happen and giving them a
convenient way to update health records
and then the third solution branded I
secure is a solution which we designed
for the patient to help them make
decisions so what happened to that model
can be averted now we have deployed
xiri in many hospitals in in Kenya and I
would say but right now we'll probably
can say one of the most used you know in
terms of market penetration in the
African market you know we were quite
out there we did a telemedicine solution
with quawi technologies where we are
looking at transmitting health data from
remote villages to central locations to
assist with diagnosis and and really
reduce the mobility of patients with
chronic conditions that work is work in
progress so don't have a lot reportin
but what i can say is that it is they
use it is that kind of technology and I
can deployment that is really making a
difference in people's lives
we have done work in vaccine management
which I'll show you this is a success
story which I'd like to report on now we
developed this platform group which
stands for way out of paper thinking
about it from an environmental
perspective to say how can we predict
events before they happen
now we develop this whole system whereby
a healthcare worker can update a
patient's record within less than 53
seconds you select the patient you
select the vaccine antigen you update
the records and the patient's a record
of the EC's becomes updated we piloted
it in seven sites and we had 1536 babies
part of this work and we are able to
predict which child would be on schedule
with their vaccine schedule
which child would be delayed catch up
which one who progressed slowly but
ultimately get their vaccines and which
households are likely to default on
their vaccines now looking at the
seasonality from this study over 75% of
kids that we looked at in the Kenya in
this study had delayed for vaccines that
may not mean much to some of you but it
is a big big risk that cities and
countries are facing because of delayed
access to vaccines we went further and
working with the team at SAS we've been
able to now do run chart analysis well
real-time when the data is coming to our
database we can profile the child in the
household and say which and identify
which risk group they are in and trigger
signals this this is showing signals
that are triggered from a database
real-time that can send messages to a
household to avert you know delays now
if we look at some of the charts and and
I'm going to keep it very basic here
you'd see like the one labeled number
one the highest peak that is a household
where a child has been delayed for 150
days to receive polio vaccine
pneumococcal vaccine and dipped and
Diptera Haemophilus and hepatitis
vaccine if you now start deploying these
kinds of technologies and city levels
there is a huge opportunity to identify
Sentinel sites whereby before disease
outbreaks happen we can pinpoint and
intervene this kind of technology can be
used for operate addiction control for
mental health disease control in big
cities and avert you know the spread of
some of those are epidemics quickly for
sustainability purposes we have
optimized a platform such that with a
basic phone now you can report an update
your data and your healthcare record is
updated and that way the analysis
becomes real-time lastly this is the
challenge we are facing at least in the
global south where you have one health
facility for a thousand house
there is that is a major challenge as
we're thinking about series in the big
cities even Nairobi and most of the
cities in Africa this is the scenario
we've got to do something about it the
health implications are huge in the
rural setting where the urgency is more
pronounced
you have serious stock-outs of medicines
because and so we need to figure out how
can we use technology to avert these
kinds of situations and that is what we
are doing where we are building social
innovation hubs putting technology in
hubs in localities they are not clinics
they are not pharmacies but it's a place
where you can use technology to report
symptoms order your medicines and get
remote diagnosis that is how we're
trying to reduce not only the carbon
footprint but making sure that
households are as close to health care
as possible using technology the
technology platform that we've developed
to do this is called I secured is
downloadable on the Android and Apple
Store and right now I can buy medicines
for my mother in Kenya and it would get
delivered to her within the next 48
hours that is how we are trying to
reduce the cost and make sure healthcare
available from the social innovation
hubs and we're trying to use some of
this data to understand mobility
patterns whereby if you buy a medicine
and we understand your mobility it fits
it could fit into a bill into a big data
warehouse and allow us to forecast
diseases based on prescription habits
and this is an example of one of the
hubs where we are collecting data so in
a nutshell there is a lot of hype
there's a lot of hope and there's a lot
of hustle we need to improve access to
health care right now access to
technologies happening only in the
hospitals we need to take healthcare
more into homes payment system
innovation is huge we are so dependent
on insurance companies to pay for
healthcare and it's driving cost and
voice of the consumer is still
underrepresented in the healthcare
sector and access to medical information
is still a big constraint so there is a
lot of room for improvement in
healthcare and I believe the hype is
there but there is still the hustle of
making healthcare affordable to save
lives in
big cities as well as in the rural areas
thank you very much for your attention
thank you very much
very inspiring as I said that as he has
to leave if you have some short question
now it's the moment because he can be
that till the end of the session if you
want just to raise your hand or go to
the microphones and if not a big amount
of time okay
so thank you thank you very much very
inspiring so now it's the moment for the
mr. Krishnamurti Gowda from Bengaluru in
India Bangalore okay so this year I
think
respected delegates and parchments I'm
really proud to make a presentation in
this beautiful city Barcelona being a
Connecticut from Bangalore IT hub of the
Orient Karnataka India as a delegate
from the government of Karnataka led by
a great visionary our honourable chief
minister mr. Sood Ramaiya in providing
social justice to all and working for
the development of the state he also
strives hard to provide integrated
health especially to the poor for below
poverty line and to those above Porter
line that is middle cross people in the
state the biggest challenge for the
government of Karnataka is the growing
population in cities these challenges
manifest itself in providing pure
drinking water sanitation civil age and
health amenities our unique Corporation
KFC is providing through its projects
for infrastructure development like what
supply sewage roads human empowerment
etc which is the assistance of World
Bank and the Asian Development Bank's
KFC infrastructure investments for these
works are around 50 billion and for this
marketing machine KFC is the nodal
agency by spending over sixty billion in
five years for the world development of
small cities in Karnataka in advancing
the health and well-being of people in
cities of karateka the government of
Karnataka has taken several incitive and
schemes which I would like to make a
presentation unknown
human wellbeing means access to security
physical social economic and healthy
food clean water ability to live in a
healthy environment a human Bill
well-being also includes some basic
human rights such as food water shelter
and Health and Safety a port mobility is
also possible with education
opportunities healthy well-fed
socialized children tend to do better in
education but all but all do not have
access to quality health care nutritious
food and environment of clean air and
water thus first step towards achieving
well-being is simple and clear that is
access to basic human rights such as
food shelter clean water and health the
UN conference on sustainable development
resulted in a document titled the future
we want world leaders committed to
migrate from the Millennium Development
Goals which focused on addressing major
gaps in human development to sustainable
development goals the hostages are
universal for all nations which have 17
sustainable development goals has seen
the diagram next
the name of fewest disease major end
poverty and hunger ensued LT lives
inclusive equitable quality education
gender equality water and sanitation for
all reliable sustainable energy for all
economic growth and productive
employment etc Karnataka moves from MDGs
to s disease Karnataka India's eighth
largest city in terms of geographical
area home to 69 million people density
of populous in horizon from 276 per
square kilometre in 2001 two to three
thousand one percent square meter in
2011 this is almost sixteen percent of
increase has made significant progress
in providing the health status of the
people since the drafting of its first
state integrated policy in 2004 cannot
act as a pilot state the start of the SS
finning is a very big important scheme a
healthy insurance program a health
insurance program that provided
insurance covered to 22 million farmers
for an animal premium of just one dollar
per year this scheme has resulted in
increased utilization of health services
and reduce out-of-pocket experience
together with the central state
government also structured our sby
national health insurance scheme that
currently covers 35 million families
living below poverty line and also that
what Pia registry scheme also provides
super speciality services to the
families below poverty line methods are
currently being taken by the current of
karateka to cover it all schemes
initially under one implementing agency
with the aim of covering all schemes
under the umbrella of universal health
care institute Karnataka's efforts
towards us see through the nationís
through the National Health Mission
chronica provides primary health care to
one liberal populations throughout the
state assisted by the Government of
India schemes Karnataka provides
secondary health care to targeted
populations across the state through the
government schemes directed the ATL and
BTL populations karateka covers more
than 90% of its population in tertiary
care institute more of health care
delivery all skills providing tertiary
care and some providing secondary care
are implemented by Karnataka in
assurance mode as opposed to insurance
mode followed by some states the scheme
targeted at BPL families was commended
by the World Bank in a study 2014 which
found a reduction of up to 64 percent in
out-of-pocket expenses by beneficiaries
Karnataka was a key player at the
Government of India level to showcase
the assurance model which provides for
lower administrative costs leading to
increases money available for
beneficiary
instead use existing health insurance a
certain scheme Shin karateka the major
schemes yes is eight million dollars are
covered and that's just we need three
point four million integers are covered
watch pay our registry scheme
it covers eleven point three million
households and Raju our occupier which
covers three point four Millions jota's
engineer scheme it covers 0.6 female 6
million families then RSP white this
scheme provides six point four unions
families thus under skin the senior
citizen RS be a senior citizens age of
60 and above BPL card words are covered
the G okay assumes the senior citizens
affair for a cover of one lakh fifty
thousand rupees per family treatment is
totally free and cashless are selected
empanelled health facilities up to
maximum chorus perineum includes
investigations implants food medicine
for entire duration for admission and
the important scheme that our team on
three Swanton a hurry ski this is
regarding all road all road traffic
accidents victims irrespective of BPL
apo status or nationality immediate
instant medical treatment for the
victims of road accidents during the
golden hour
48 hours cashless treatment for the
victims with a maximum amount of rupees
24,000 per episode hundred eight hundred
Borel plane for the ambulance
Indira's or exogenous dependent family
members of the farmers who have
committed suits is also very important
scheme a national scheme that provides
financial origin of rupees 1.5 lakh per
family per year treatment is cashless
and covers patients with pre-existing
diseases
then this what learning plan scheme
children with the severe diff diff Ness
children in the age of in the easy group
of eight months to six years in the
category of disability due to hearing
impairment okay
then another important is into
mainstream healthcare is this ayurvedic
yoga naturopathy Unani and Siddha are
traditional systems which are 5,000
years old traditions in India our
government established all these centers
of excellence for highest medical
practices and create an enabling
environment for traditional
practitioners as well as explore into
these two more inclusive some of the
institute proposed under the sponsor
dismission
multi facility hospital s+ trauma
centers is what it is population of
government hospitals is much more cities
largely the impact all the all this help
exists Metheny made a tremendous impact
that is the life expectancy has gone up
what used to be sixty two point three
years for powermail and six three point
nine years for female in 2001 and 2005
is now sixty seven point three years for
male and sixty nine point six years for
female in 2011 and 15 to an extent the
population growth SAV has been contained
protected what is being provided woman
empowerment led to increase working
woman in force working purpose increases
drastically especially skilled labor
that is with a special emphasis on
tecna's technology workforce
all these factors are resulted in the
emergence in emergence of Bangalore as
the IT capital of India with worldwide
recognition thank you
[Applause]
Thank You mr. Gowda then we will have
time for a question after after the last
presentation mites if you can come back
to seat Benny then in in the end we will
have the questions from all the public
now it's mr. Luis Suarez from FCC Madrid
thank you very much thank you to the
organization and congratulations for
this fantastic Congress this time this
is the time to switch to Spanish the
funny thing is that you only will lose
the jokes because you have all in
English in the presentation okay
buenas tardes a todos los asistentes
muchas gracias a la organización del
congreso a la una buena por la fantastic
organization y en esto occasion no esta
contribution esta esta este congreso
esta basada en lo que nosotros avenido
prep you pondo desde hace mucho tiempo
que es como podemos contribute a la
salud de las comunidades cape estamos
servicios otra vez de lugar a nuestros
propios trabajadores en si sentido antes
de iniciar la posición quiero
situazione el marco de que es f SS a ya
que nos dedica Mo's f ed si es una un
grupo con más de siena nose concrete
Ament a ciento Diez Y siete a nose al
servicio primero de la sociedad Espanola
a despues del resto del mundo
Marta CN Mar Desiree nosed experiencia
en los de torres de construcción de
servicios hermanos de un Piazza de
servicios de agua fundamental meant a
Cana internationalization creciente idea
do alcanza hasta tren de Cinco Price's
yo or una capacidad de innovation
tecnológica que nos Vienna Dada pour
lost in cuenta cuatro mil profesionales
que trabaja mozcon or goo yo al servicio
de nuestra organization nuestro
compromiso fundamental con la sociedad
de Zeeuw las comunidades sabes que
estamos servicios es el desarrollo
Urbano sustainable importantto la
protección media ambiental incluyen doe
dentro de la protección media ambiental
el tema hae nas esta ocupado aqui es
decir la salud de los ciudadanos KN
definitive a somos los que Ave Atomos en
las ciudades a la salut c seguridad de
nuestros empleados y la salut c
seguridad de las familias los vecinos de
las comunidades a las que Presta mo
servicios como JD cho veremos pressed
ando servicios en cuatro areas un event
allah's por una parte l area principal
que es el área de servicios media
ambient allah's donde tenemos la
limpieza B area a la recogida de basura
la limpieza de Fe COC locales la Jardin
area publica el tratamiento Trece clase
recuperación en su casa Berta Darrow's
de receive AHS urbanos EDA recei dos
industriales una segunda Rama de nuestra
empresa son los servicios de agua en a
dead acondo nose desde el siglo integral
del agua desde la l su mini Stroh a las
comunidades hasta el tratamiento de agua
y la pone le posterior Rasta clase o
DeCecco de la misma n condiciones que
nada en el medio ambiente
finalmente la vida de construcción que
podemos DVD en dos en dos partes de
Stinton apart a low-cost russia own
infrastructure asleep wrote repartee l
su mini Stroh de el material seneschal
para la construcción en la la
fabricación mini-stroke a es el cement
Oh
concrete Amenti en el área que soy
responsable de recursos ooh manos que
son los servicios media ambient ah lays
como di soda knows di camos a say Santa
V da days fundamentals
kaydessa ro da Mo's el Mar de Cinco min
municipio ZN españa y en tres a pices
del mundo en trios en tres continental
distintos en corriendo America del Norte
Africa Europa desde la tecnología desde
los advances tecnológico Padres very
few era hora cuando so guys los camiones
elector COEs que tenemos en servicio
aqui en la ciudad de barcelona desde la
tecnología desde la gestion que nos da
de mar de siena nosed experiencia
nuestra contribution LVN a star or bono
Vienna da de otra vez de nuestra
preoccupation initial pour koalas la
seguridad y la salud de nuestra plan T
Edina Stroh's opera Rio's en este
sentido decir que para situation Oso
tros tenemos UN no vent a Cinco por
ciento de plant illa que Sun blue colas
decir trabajadores o / re Osuna mental
meant a Manuel's estamos hablando de
trabajos con exigency a physica y de
trabajo que estan summit Eidos a gravis
inclemency 'as meteorological no lo dijo
antes pero la planta de la que estamos
hablando en el área de servicios media
ambiental desde Cuarenta dos mil
empleados aproximadamente hombres y
mujeres que de serra da Mo's nuestro
trabajo en tres a pisces distintos de
los cuales tray in tamil'
aproximadamente lost ahmo's de cera
Londo en Espana case elk or a de nuestra
actividad
a donde Seon Desiro lado los programme's
que a continuation voy a poner voy con
partir con todo vosotros en primer lugar
de donde parte todo esto hoy un
principio ethically tenemos que de
volver a las comunidades lo que las
comunidades no sexing a la sociedad
Apsaras que estamos servicios lo que es
la sociedad as no sexism SI principio
etic o y de próxima das que NOS plant a
ahmo's hace muchos años en FSS a en el
caso concrete okay no so Kupa parte de
la vas a day consider our
l VN estar la salud de nuestro trabaja
Dora's Alvo essencial para nuestra
organization a no solamente debido a
nuestra preocupación por los propios
trabajadores a porsche familias AI de
trois do evident Ament a como todos
sabemos una a Segura me ento de la
continued EDA's del negocio una Segura
me n toda la productive EDA's y de la
competitive EDA's en una actividad de
serra da Mo's fundamental meant a mark
odda por un t a logo so she al
Permanente no centenarian ingu no de los
programas image uno de los process o's
puestos en marcha c noon consents oprah
vo tanto con los principales
interlocutors sociales como pour con los
principal s interlocutors Laboral
syndicalist es SNC odd para la puesta in
march a parle éxito de estos programas
cantar con la collaboration cantar con
el acuerdo previo de estas interlocutors
que son authentico socios para la puesta
en marcha de estos programas es no
solamente el éxito de la organización
lo que está en juego see no más allá
del XE toda la organización es el
compliment o de una de las metas que no
se Mo's marcado desde hace muchos años
en FSSA que es tener en todo momento una
contribution responsible a nuestras
comunidades pour over Yendo les de
servicios y siendo un interlocutor
indispensable para asegurar la
sustainability' 'he's medio ambiental y
la sustainability' scioscia party endo
de supreme isa party endo de Samarco
intend emos que el lanzamiento de
campaña says Ladas el de programas
punto a lays no era suficiente sino que
necesitamos dotar knows de un marco
systemic o de una política systemic ax
chain OCC era desarrollar todas aquellas
acciones con una dirección
un sentido por el portal motivo nosotros
elegy Mo's integral nostro sistema de
- man no sistema de gestion de la salud
y seguridad they'll be any star in
definitive a demonstrable Antilia otra
vez del Modelo denominator purine or de
empresas aloo Doblin a me me gusta mess
hablar de bienestar Laboral no solamente
la empresa la que debe ser saludable es
el Vienna star Laboral de nuestros plan
teyla's de nuestra gente el que tenemos
que buscar la certification y el
programa establecido en el marco de
empresas salud habla de saroja el la
salud la seguridad yell bien estar en
definitive además tows empleados como
una un canto de acciones Devidas a
Durante's RK el centro de trabajo se
convierte en un espacio de
sustainability' z-- y de bienestar para
toda la planta para todos los
trabajadores pero más allá de nuestros
trabajadores tenemos que fuera de la ley
she unprofessional fuera de la nación
labral ah el intorno personal familiar
de sus trabajadores por ESO no se hace
doe mejor are no sólo la salut de
nuestros trabajadores sino también la
salud y LVN estar de las comunidades a
las que estamos servicios son tres pesos
muy sense illios ESO stress Paso's los
podemos seguir a Ramos que dar alguna
algunos números los podemos he fraud en
estas en cuenta cuatro programas de
vados acabo n distant --is unidades de
negocio en los propio servicios
centrales
hasta siete mills st entos trabajadores
que si an benefic a doe
de los mention ADO's programas voy a
poner tres ejemplos en primer lugar como
empezamos con la salud de nuestros
propios trabajadores
a bitch okay Sarah Taba de unas
actividad A's muy excelente fisica mint
a una de las cosas que descubrimos es la
in Mensa Ellen vents impact okay tiene
en las Naciones musculoskeletal --is la
l at Avira's Desiree on nuestros M play
hasta un banty siete por ciento de
impact o en el absentees mala oral
comenzamos programa sendest in toes
puntos de Callen Tammy ento previo
talent a bientot Deportivo antes de
empezar el trabajo junto con le o
empezamos for aramas de team-building de
los equipos de trabajo que tenia Desiree
dr.seuss trabajo CNN distintos sona's de
la ciudad y el final del dia tambien St
Rami entos novice Quesada real asado la
actividad el resultado acid own dais 10
so del treinta por ciento en el
absentees mola Borel como consecuencia
de elecciones musculoskeletal casa el
segundo impact okay Mo's credo 10 eres
más allá del mundo la hora de más
allá del enter no professional eye a
betos yone ductus kmo square Edo era de
car de nuestra plan TAC del enter no de
nuestra plant ideas hemos Desiro lado
campaña specific as contra el alcohol
contra las drogas contol table akise mo
pero además de combate ear los habit
O's in correctos a mos def Ament are una
cultura emos fomented una cultura de la
salud Camby ando lo sabe tows a lament
Ezio's y desarrollo y ando a programas
de deux Casio nutritional para nuestra
plant illa no solamente en el aspecto
fisico también es importante las
heterocyclic oye emotional portal motivo
amor de cera lado y wall meant a
programas para evitar el astrays para
enseñar mayan Funes y para indefinite
eva intent re-implement are LVN estar
emotional de nuestra plant ideas pero
más allá de nuestra plan ta de nuestra
gente de y sus familias esta la sociedad
para la que estamos Ribisi las
comunidades a algunos de los problemas
seda cerulean message a tentando dar una
respuesta problemas sociales como la
mobile idad y la el desarrollo de
energía alternate Eva's O'Day Movida
dad sustainable a alternativa
actual hemos Desiro lado programas en
varias du da days
haciendo reciclaje también y yo y esto
a Draper QT doe en las comunidades a las
que estamos servicios indefinite Eva a
con esto terminó lo más importante
como de si el principio es que lo
estamos haciendo juntos muchas gracias
so thank you very much for the four
speakers dr. lentil mines left as I said
earlier he had to leave and now it's
time for from four questions I don't
know if we dare you have used a scam
boat or okay there are two questions
okay one one question is about to what
extent is air pollution the top health
challenge for cities maybe Christine
could say something about that and then
there is a more general question on how
can we improve the health and well-being
of everyone
equally and they also share this
question because in Barcelona we are we
are keeping this health equity objective
very very much in mind so when we are
performing this kind of program maybe
also this could be well a question for
both mr. Gowda and mr. Suarez because
and I think that it's already in their
work because the universal health care
access as the topic of expanding the
coverage to all the population and also
the your program is also as you said is
already focused on your population which
is mainly blue-collar workers but you do
you ensure that within your population
everybody is benefiting men and women
different categories different have you
in the evaluation of your program are
you looking at these kind of things if
if we really most of the company workers
are benefiting or some are benefitting
more than others
so and and also just I would like to add
to to Christine one more topic which is
the your set and now in Germany in
February we will do these groups to
share the data but do you plan next to
publish this data online for instance so
I would is the plan of getting this data
to work for the to be for the population
to be aware of the situation of
pollution so I'll answer that second
question first yeah we're straight
forward so we having the community focus
workgroups the goal is also to publish
papers about it once that article is
published and share that so that way the
data can results can get out to a wider
audience as well so lots of different
opportunities to talk about that once
the results are in for the first
question to what extent is air quality
at top health priority for cities I
think that's hard to answer and there's
not a blanket yes it's ranked at this
number across all cities because it's
gonna depend on your location it's also
gonna depend on what pollutant that
you're talking about in the US carbon
monoxide is really not a priority
pollutant that would be very different
in developing countries in organs
specifically Portland we have issues
with diesel particulate matter and
that's because our state's regulatory
policies are behind that of California
and Washington
so those older vehicles actually get
kind of imported into our state so
really specific issues so it just
depends on what pollutant and what city
may be what scale even some
neighborhoods may have certain air
quality issues while others wouldn't in
your city okay
there's another man here's another
microphone that if you want to start the
how did you with this with this health
coverage expansion programs how you're
reaching all the different sector of the
population
how are you ensuring that everybody
benefits equally from these programs
sure if you ever take on that especially
in Karnataka our state in India measures
are taken by uniting various schemes by
emitted by the central government
instead go in under one scheme universal
health care under this scheme our
government is providing especially for
the bigger Portland people and even for
above Portland it is America's people up
to ninety percent of the people are
covered under this universal health care
in this scheme our government and all
the best facilities are given by our
government by different insurances and
SSP knee many schemes a kobold under one
universal health care in this Kim
ninety percent of the poor and Balam
because people are getting health
benefits
oh come on this man Z okay thanks for
your question
yes of course I think that our our topic
is also on health for example you have a
couple of electric truck outside if you
are concerned with the atmosphere that
we our lungs are breathing everyday in
the cities I think that it's something
that contributes roughly to our wellness
the the possibility the chance to have
completely electric vehicles to make the
collection and the other question that
you made me was about the Equality
brawlers
we have programs from gender equality
diversity and inclusion from eight nine
years ago and all our programs include a
shared Commission with unions and with
labor liberal delegates in order to
ensure that we face different situation
when we are treating with women or men
and they need different they have
different needs so I don't know if I am
answering your question it was a quite
different one but but before making
another question myself I just want to
make sure that there's no more question
for the participants yes so please we
can continue later and I there is there
are these microphones or or we can share
this one it's it's something it's here
you mean let me just check this work
[Music]
una pregunta and for seniors arcos es
una cosa tener un programa otra cosa que
lo hacen so my questions around adoption
and change management um how was he able
to get you know he had such a successful
program but how was he able to get the
workers to actually comply with that yes
that's the other question is also for
the thing for the same person which is
about how do you defend investing in
health for employees when the gainer
perhaps perhaps not so miserable you
made an example of measure of impact but
and so my additional question was about
measuring the impact of your of your
programs
two things are okay you can have a main
impact as you show 30% of reductionistic
sickness absence but how do you evaluate
the impact for the impact of health
promotion programs in different sectors
of your population which I was saying
men and women and for instance
construction workers and cleaning
workers and so on and an additional
thing that I put the question about is
these healthy habits require also time
resources some time ago not economic
resources motivation and sometimes also
the working condition and employment
condition and the salaries are also
influencing on that so how do you manage
that you're not just promoting what's
good for health but you're also making
for workers the condition easier yours
in the work life and outside the work
life to make these to get these healthy
habits would be so there are three or
four questions for you but maybe
they're about the Yami's de las personas
cardiovascular principio del templo
consejo de tomar fruta pero igual
Celerio Mercanti para comprar estamos
estamos a Desiree Ando initiative as
como poner una vez a la semana meses con
fruta confessed 'as de fruta para que
los trabajadores de la pueden llevar
gratis a su casa
estamos viendo tiempo de recursos pero
yo creo que de bois decir a non or a
miss compañeros ya la gente de fe de se
que el mejor recurso de todos que
tenemos es el entusiasmo
de la propias n take a collab hora en en
esto en la puesta Marcia de estos
programas
nuevos querida hacer siempre elimin ando
el espíritu competitive o yq am beyond
o lo por el espíritu cooperative oh
poor exemplo cuando esto
sorry ol programme's para earrin busy al
trabajo no estamos benefic ando aqui em
mama CNBC al trabajo sino que entra
todos los que van en vicia trabajar
hemos tratado yo son fin de semana en
una instalación de multi-event hora que
tenemos en en la costa rica race yeah he
go todos los casos intend hemos que el
entusiasmo de nuestra gente que en cola
hora en la puesta Modesto's pour
nuestros Nostrum on dos intermedius kstn
Kolob hora en estos programas es el
mejor valor gettin so thing that times
up
we have several different topics I hope
it has been interesting for you and
you'll get in got insights that you can
bring home for your own work at home and
thanks again to the speakers for the
time and the patience answering goes to
the questions and thank you very much
